Word: A bed of roses
Meaning: a phrase used to reference a situation that is easy or comfortable
Example: The poor orphan’s life hasn’t been a bed of roses or easy by any means.

Word: A Priori
Meaning: something that is believed to be true without actual reinforcement with facts or statistics
Example: Religious people have the a priori belief that God exists without any physical proof.

Word: Aardvark
Meaning: a large; long-eared nocturnal animal that uses its long tongue to eat ants and termites
Example: The long-eared aardvark slept all day and ate insects all night.

Word: Aback 
Meaning: in amazement; shocked
Example: I was taken aback by the server’s rude comment about my hair.

Word: Abaft
Meaning: toward the stern; behind
Example: The wind was abaft which made the ship glide faster towards our destination.

Word: Abandon
Meaning: to stop caring and leave or to desert
Example: Since the young girl was unable to care for the newborn; she decided to abandon the child at a fire station.

Word: Abase
Meaning: to lower so as to hurt feelings
Example: My stepmother is an evil woman who likes to abase little children because she had a miserable childhood herself.

Word: Abaser
Meaning: someone who degrades or lowers someone
Example: After the abaser would make fun of her daughter-in-law’s cooking; she would then continue to talk bad about the young woman’s appearance as well.

Word: Abash
Meaning: to humiliate someone and make them feel embarrassed or ashamed
Example: The officer tried to abash the inmates; humiliating them and treating them like dogs.

Word: Abate
Meaning: to reduce in degree or intensity
Example: I hope this medicine will abate the pain in my leg.

Word: Abatement
Meaning: reduction or weakening or something
Example: Natalie longed for the abatement of the screaming rock music from her brother’s band so she could focus on her homework.

Word: Abattoir
Meaning: a place where animals are taken to slaughter
Example: Although many farmers own cattle; they don't slaughter the animals on site but send them to an abattoir.

Word: Abbess
Meaning: the female superior of a community of nuns
Example: An Abbess is the female leader of a small community of nuns.

Word: Abbreviate
Meaning: to shorten a word or phrase
Example: Learning to abbreviate long words will help the court reporter type more quickly.

Word: Abdicate
Meaning: to stop accepting a particular responsibility or obligation that you have
Example: The young prince became king after his older brother decided to abdicate the throne.

Word: Abdominal
Meaning: related to the abdomen/stomach; or the part between the thorax and the pelvis
Example: My severe abdominal pains sent me to the hospital where I learned that it was nothing more than trapped gas.

Word: Abduct
Meaning: to grab an individual by trickery or force
Example: The kidnappers planned to abduct the millionaire’s daughter.

Word: Abecedarian
Meaning: alphabetical
Example: We decided to organize the files in an abecedarian manner so we could find what we were looking for by name more easily.

Word: Aberrant
Meaning: straying from the normal or right way
Example: John’s aberrant behavior is going to get him in a lot of trouble one of these days.

Word: Aberration
Meaning: deviating from what is normal or desirable; not typical
Example: Shelley’s angry retort was an aberration from her normally quiet demeanor.

Word: Abet
Meaning: to encourage or support a behavior or action
Example: The photo editing software is sure to abet my odds of winning the photo competition.

Word: Abeyance
Meaning: a state of temporary disuse or suspension
Example: Immediately following the terrorist attack; pilots had to observe a period of abeyance where they could not depart from the airport.

Word: Abhor
Meaning: to reject something very strongly; hate
Example: I abhor liars.

Word: Abhorrence
Meaning: a strong feeling of hate paired with a feeling of loathing
Example: My abhorrence of racism makes me avoid people with racist attitudes.

Word: Abhorrent
Meaning: causing or deserving strong dislike or hatred
Example: As I looked around the filthy apartment; I had to wonder who could live in such abhorrent conditions.

Word: Abide 
Meaning: tolerate an unpleasant thing or person; endure
Example: I find it difficult to abide the narrow-minded attitude of a prejudiced person.

Word: Ability
Meaning: the skill or capability to do something
Example: The Flash has the ability to run faster than the speed of light.

Word: Abiotic
Meaning: abiotic means something that is sterile; not from living organisms
Example: Unlike alive biotic organisms; abiotic factors are nonliving.

Word: Abject
Meaning: cast down in spirit or hope
Example: After his wife died; he was an abject man.

Word: Abjure
Meaning: to give up a belief or an activity
Example: After the tyrant took over the country; the citizens had to abjure their political beliefs.

Word: Ablaze
Meaning: burning fiercely; in a blaze; on fire
Example: The cops threw Jack to the ground and arrested him after he set the American flag ablaze.

Word: Able-bodied
Meaning: physically strong and healthy
Example: If you are not injured or sick; you can generally be considered an able-bodied individual capable of physical exertion.

Word: Able
Meaning: having the capability of doing something
Example: Being a healthy young man; I am perfectly able to engage in manual labor; no matter what kind of physical stress that includes.

Word: Ablution
Meaning: the act of washing or cleansing
Example: Sylvia has a rare condition that makes her break out in a rash if she gets water on her skin; so her morning ablution consists of using cleansing cream and tissue.

Word: Abnegation
Meaning: the act of rejecting or refusing something 
Example: Her abnegation of ice cream and cookies is due to her Olympic team training.

Word: Abnormal
Meaning: out of the ordinary; unusual
Example: William worried that his abnormal bleeding was a symptom of cancer.

Word: Abnormality
Meaning: a feature that is not normal or average
Example: Albinism is an abnormality in the pigmentation of one’s body; making them so pale as to appear white.

Word: Aboard
Meaning: on board; into or within a ship or boat
Example: The stewardess welcomed everyone aboard and asked us to pay attention to what she had to say.

Word: Abode 
Meaning: the place where one resides or lives
Example: The fraternity’s abode was the messiest house on campus.

Word: Abolish
Meaning: to put an end to
Example: The Supreme Court believed it was time to abolish the outdated amendment.

Word: Abolition
Meaning: the action of putting an end to something
Example: The abolition of smoking in restaurants is a blessing to people like myself who suffer from allergies and asthma.

Word: Abolitionist
Meaning: one who supports the elimination of practices or laws that are viewed as dangerous
Example: The abolitionist is recruiting like-minded people who share her opposition to the pro-abortion laws.

Word: Abominable
Meaning: horrible; terrible
Example: Last year’s record final record was abominable and we finished the season with no wings.

Word: Abominate
Meaning: to despise intensely
Example: Since I abominate liver; I will starve to death before I eat it.

Word: Abomination
Meaning: something that is hated
Example: The marketing team thought the new ad to be an abomination and worked hard to come up with one they didn’t hate.

Word: Aboriginal
Meaning: associated with being part of the original population; native
Example: The Indian tribe’s aboriginal dialect has been replaced by the English language.

Word: Abort
Meaning: to stop something from happening any longer; to discontinue
Example: The law allows women to abort an early-stage pregnancy.

Word: Abortive 
Meaning: an unproductive attempt
Example: When the rebels’ plan to take over the castle proved abortive; they were caught and executed.

Word: Abound
Meaning: available in large quantity or number
Example: At the beginning of the school year; computer deals abound on the Internet.

Word: Above
Meaning: overhead or directly over the head
Example: As the children heard the airplane; they looked above to see the big Boeing 747 flying within inches of the treetops.

Word: Above
Meaning: at a higher layer or level than something else
Example: If you look above you while outside; you will almost certainly spot clouds; the sun; or the moon; though in some cases you might not see them at all.

Word: Abraded
Meaning: to produce damage or irritation by scraping; rubbing; or crushing
Example: The wool blanket abraded my legs and gave me a rash.

Word: Abrasion
Meaning: a spot or area that has been scraped or harshly rubbed
Example: When the little boy fell off his bike; his only injury was a small abrasion on his right leg.

Word: Abrasive
Meaning: unlikeable; nasty
Example: Because of Kurt’s abrasive personality; most people try to avoid him at work.

Word: Abreast
Meaning: remaining up to date on a topic
Example: To stay relevant in the field of computer programming; Kurt must stay abreast of the latest programming languages.

Word: Abridge
Meaning: to make shorter
Example: His agent told him that he needed to abridge some of the content of his novel so that it would be under 400 pages.

Word: Abroad
Meaning: in foreign countries
Example: His plan is to get a degree in economics and then work abroad for a year.

Word: Abrogate
Meaning: to abolish; to do away with
Example: You cannot abrogate anyone's right to free speech!

Word: Abrupt
Meaning: without notice; sudden
Example: The bus came to an abrupt halt outside the school.

Word: Abruption
Meaning: a sudden breaking away
Example: During Tara’s pregnancy; placental abruption occurred when the placenta pulled away from the uterine wall.

Word: Abruptly 
Meaning: suddenly; without notice
Example: Without warning; my boss abruptly fired me.

Word: Abscess
Meaning: cavity filled with pus
Example: A tame rabbit was brought in with a large abscess about the size of an egg on its cheek.

Word: Abscission
Meaning: the natural shedding of parts of a plant
Example: Abscission of leaves occurs during autumn; before winter sets in.

Word: Abscond
Meaning: escape into hiding; to leave quickly and hide to avoid punishment
Example: Do you think he has plans to abscond with the stolen money?

Word: Absence
Meaning: being gone from a place or person
Example: She felt his absence like a gaping hole in her chest that was too painful to ignore.

Word: Absent-minded
Meaning: describes a person who is forgetful or constantly distracted
Example: The absent-minded professor was always forgetting an ingredient or two in his experiments.

Word: Absent
Meaning: not present; not in a place one is expected to be
Example: The absent father never came to his kids’ school events or picked them up for a weekend visit.

Word: Absenteeism
Meaning: the practice of missing school or work without good reason
Example: The student’s absenteeism has caused him to miss a lot of work.

Word: Absolute
Meaning: complete or total; undisputable
Example: The fact that two plus two equals four is absolute in mathematics; and cannot ever be disputed with any logical argument.

Word: Absolutely
Meaning: with no limitation; restriction; or caveat
Example: My cousin is absolutely convinced that there are aliens out there; even though we have no concrete evidence to back up such a notion.

Word: Absolution
Meaning: setting free from guilt; sin or penalty; forgiveness of an offense
Example: The killer got on his knees and begged for absolution at his execution.

Word: Absolve
Meaning: to make (someone) free from guilt; responsibility; etc.
Example: The jury’s innocent verdict appears to absolve the defendant of any guilt.

Word: Absorb
Meaning: to take in or soak up a substance
Example: A sponge will absorb any water it is placed in quite well; since it is porous and designed for exactly that purpose.

Word: Absorption
Meaning: the act by which one substance takes in something or is taken in
Example: The paper towels are thick; and as such; have a heavy absorption rate.

Word: Absquatulate
Meaning: to depart hurriedly
Example: Before the thief could absquatulate with the diamonds; he was surrounded by police officers.

Word: Abstain
Meaning: restrain oneself from doing or enjoying something
Example: Because of my health; I am going to abstain from the consumption of alcoholic beverages.

Word: Abstemious
Meaning: marked by moderation and holding back on indulgence
Example: Gerald was abstemious at dinner and only ate a little of the food on his plate.

Word: Abstention
Meaning: a decision to not vote for or against a proposition
Example: I decided to settle on an abstention when the family voted on where we should eat; as personally I didn’t care where we went.

Word: Abstinence
Meaning: the act of not taking part in something
Example: According to my religion; one should refrain from having sex and practice abstinence until marriage.

Word: Abstract
Meaning: being present as an idea but not in a definite form
Example: I cannot distinguish any defined shapes within the artist’s abstract painting.

Word: Abstruse
Meaning: difficult to understand
Example: Some of the classic novels are too abstruse for beginning readers to understand.

Word: Absurd
Meaning: ridiculous; silly; foolish
Example: Spending the week in jail for stealing a loaf of bread is an absurd punishment for such a minor crime.

Word: Absurdity
Meaning: the quality of being ridiculous
Example: To believe that the earth is flat is an absurdity.

Word: Abundance
Meaning: a large quantity; many
Example: We're wishing you two an abundance of love and happiness.

Word: Abundant 
Meaning: an ample amount
Example: Because my aunt buys toilet tissue every time it goes on sale; she has an abundant supply of the bathroom necessity.

Word: Abuse
Meaning: Improper treatment
Example: All abuse; whether physical; verbal; psychological or sexual; is bad.

Word: Abuse
Meaning: to treat a person or animal in a cruel or mean way
Example: Mean little Griffin used to abuse his dog by kicking and hitting him when his parents weren’t looking.

Word: Abuse
Meaning: to mistreat or misuse something
Example: The evil man would always abuse his dog; kicking and hitting the puppy for no reason.

Word: Abusive
Meaning: describing continuous violence or cruelty towards something or someone
Example: It is sad to think that many animals suffer at the hands of an abusive owner every day; being physically beaten or deprived of nutrition on a regular basis.

Word: Abut
Meaning: to touch or lean on
Example: The chair abuts the wall because it is missing a leg and cannot stand up otherwise; though sitting in it is still risky.

Word: Abysmal
Meaning: very bad
Example: Since Troy did not study for the test; he earned an abysmal score on the exam.

Word: Abyss
Meaning: an area that appears endless and immeasurable
Example: If you’re an alcoholic; the temptation to drink may seem like a huge abyss.

Word: Academia
Meaning: the environment associated with researching; teaching; and learning at a college or university 
Example: Gail found the real world of business to be quite different from what she learned in academia.

Word: Academic
Meaning: school-related; educational
Example: The academic magazine was full of tips for both teachers and students.

Word: Academy
Meaning: a school or place of training in which some special art is taught
Example: The military academy trains up to 2;000 officer cadets each year.

Word: Accede
Meaning: to agree with someone or give in to his or her wish
Example: At your insistence and to avoid a prolonged argument; I will accede to your contract terms.

Word: Accelerate
Meaning: to increase the motion or growth
Example: It was fun to watch the racecar accelerate from zero to one hundred and fifty miles per hour.

Word: Acceleration
Meaning: an escalation in pace or speed
Example: With a little acceleration on my part; I should be able to catch up with the mailman’s truck.

Word: Accent
Meaning: a distinctive pronunciation of language often associated by nationality or culture
Example: If you ever meet someone from another country; you will likely note that they have an accent when they speak your language.

Word: Accentuate
Meaning: to highlight 
Example: The bright colored eyeliner will accentuate Ann’s beautiful eyes.

Word: Accept
Meaning: to agree to take or receive
Example: Cinderella tried to accept the prince’s invite to the ball; but her stepmother got in the way.

Word: Acceptable
Meaning: satisfactory; adequate
Example: Savannah’s grades were acceptable; but her parents had hoped she would score higher than average.

Word: Acceptance
Meaning: the act of taking/receiving something that is being offered
Example: Acceptance of the offer means we will be selling our house to the Jeffersons.

Word: Accepting
Meaning: agreeing to take or receive something
Example: Accepting his assistant’s resignation was difficult for the attorney because he didn’t want her to leave.

Word: Access
Meaning: gain entrance to
Example: She could no longer access her bank account because there had been too many suspicious purchases.

Word: Accessible
Meaning: capable of being accessed
Example: The hotel offers accessible rooms for its handicapped guests.

Word: Accessory
Meaning: an article that completes one's basic outfit; such as a scarf or gloves
Example: This silk scarf is the perfect accessory for stylish summer evenings.

Word: Accident
Meaning: unexpected event with negative consequences
Example: By accident he touched the hot metal; and yanked his hand away with a cry of pain.

Word: Accidental
Meaning: something happening unplanned or unforeseen
Example: Since the boy wasn’t looking; stepping on his friend’s foot was an accidental occurrence.

Word: Acclaim
Meaning: public praise and applause
Example: Showered with acclaim; the dancer loved all of the praise she was getting from the crowd.

Word: Acclamation
Meaning: loud praise or approval
Example: Debra’s staff works tirelessly and deserves every acclamation.

Word: Acclimate
Meaning: to adapt to a new place or different conditions
Example: When you go up into the mountains; allow yourself a little time for your lungs to acclimate to the high elevation.

Word: Acclivity
Meaning: an upward slope
Example: We scrambled up the acclivity to view the setting sun.

Word: Accolade
Meaning: an acknowledgement or an award
Example: When the police officer was offered the plaque; he refused to accept an accolade for doing his job.

Word: Accommodate
Meaning: to fulfill a request or meet the needs of 
Example: When I told my manager I was going to school at night; he told me he would try and accommodate my preference to work on the day shift.

Word: Accommodating
Meaning: inclined to make happy or content
Example: The accommodating hostess made sure everyone had enough to eat at the party.

Word: Accommodation
Meaning: a place for someone to live; stay; or work
Example: The only accommodation offered is a thin old mattress.

Word: Accompanied
Meaning: joined by an item or a companion 
Example: The rain was accompanied by thunder and lightning.

Word: Accompaniment
Meaning:  a thing which is provided as a supplement to something else
Example: The accompaniment of the violin really took the song to a new level of sophistication.

Word: Accompany
Meaning: to go along with something or someone
Example: According to the menu; a side salad and rolls will accompany the steak.

Word: Accompanying
Meaning: appearing or going along with someone or something else
Example: In next week’s newspaper; my article and accompanying photo will be printed.

Word: Accomplice
Meaning: a person who helps another person perform a task that is usually criminal in nature
Example: The police are hoping the accomplice will lead them to the mastermind of the crime.

Word: Accomplish
Meaning: to achieve or complete something
Example: Even though I used to be pretty bad at mathematics; through hard work and dedication I was able to accomplish my goal of getting an A in the class as my final grade.

Word: Accomplished
Meaning: to have achieved or completed something successfully
Example: The committee met for several hours; but accomplished nothing because they argued the whole time.

Word: Accomplishment
Meaning: a goal or success that is achieved because of hard work
Example: Being the first one in my family to graduate from college is an accomplishment that I’m very proud of.

Word: Accord
Meaning: agreement or concurrence of opinion
Example: The entire table was in accord that mozzarella sticks would be the appetizer.

Word: Accordance
Meaning: to be in compliance with something or someone
Example: The company refunded the customer’s money in accordance with their request based on the company’s money back guarantee.

Word: Accordingly
Meaning: in a suitable way
Example: Once the payment is received; we will process your order accordingly.

Word: Accosted
Meaning: forcefully confronted
Example: When the man accosted me with a gun; I quickly handed over my purse.

Word: Account
Meaning: a statement of facts or occurrences
Example: He gave a very vivid and often shocking account/description of his time in prison.

Word: Accountability
Meaning: the state of being accountable; responsible for
Example: Their lack of accountability has corroded public respect for business and political leaders.

Word: Accountable
Meaning: held as liable for a person or thing
Example: The boy lied because he didn’t want to be held accountable for breaking his neighbor’s window.

Word: Accounting
Meaning: the system of recording and managing financial transactions and accounts
Example: The millionaire hired an accounting firm to take care of his financial accounts.

Word: Accoutrement
Meaning: an accessory used in a specific situation or for a specific task
Example: The only accoutrement missing from my kitchen is a hand mixer.

Word: Accredit
Meaning: to bestow official approval upon 
Example: During the ceremony; the dean will accredit students who met the graduation requirements.

Word: Accreditation
Meaning: formal endorsement of a person; school program; or organization
Example: When the school lost its national accreditation; it saw its enrollment dramatically decline.

Word: Accretion
Meaning: act of increasing by natural growth
Example: The accretion of traffic accidents and drunk driving was attributed to the opening of the new downtown mall.

Word: Accrue
Meaning: increase
Example: Even though a traditional savings count will accrue a small amount of interest every year; other types of investments are better hedges against inflation.

Word: Acculturation
Meaning: a course by which a person’s or group’s culture is altered as a result of contact with another culture
Example: Many immigrants have forgotten their native cultures because of acculturation in their new countries.

Word: Accumulate
Meaning: to pile up or collect
Example: I will accumulate wealth due to disciplined investing.

Word: Accuracy
Meaning: the state of being correct or precise
Example: The archer’s accuracy is spot on and he always hits his target.

Word: Accurate
Meaning: without mistakes
Example: Since you did not type in the accurate pin number; you cannot withdraw funds from the ATM.

Word: Accurately
Meaning: exactly; precisely
Example: It's still not possible to accurately predict the occurrence of earthquakes.

Word: Accusation
Meaning: a charge or claim against someone in which they are accused of doing something wrong or illegal
Example: The defendant denied the accusation and held firm that he was not guilty.

Word: Accusation
Meaning: a charge or claim that someone has done something illegal or wrong
Example: An accusation of murder was made against the man; but there was no evidence to prove he killed his friend.

Word: Accusatory
Meaning: blaming a person or group for something
Example: My wife’s accusatory questions are starting to disrupt our marriage.

Word: Accuse
Meaning: attribute blame to someone
Example: Due to Peter’s location at the time of the incident; the police would accuse him of being an accomplice to murder.

Word: Accustom
Meaning: to make familiar by use
Example: I blinked repeatedly; trying to accustom my eyes to the bright light from the sun.

Word: Acerb
Meaning: sour; bitter; and sharp in taste
Example: The bitter lemon’s acerb taste caused the toddler to frown.

Word: Acerbic
Meaning: expressing harsh or sharp criticism in a clever way
Example: After John heard his teacher’s acerbic comments; he was not motivated to complete his project.

Word: Acerbity 
Meaning: roughness or harshness; as in language or temperament
Example: The acerbity in the teacher’s tone made the small child cry.

Word: Ache
Meaning: continious; but not strong pain
Example: The doctor was able to diagnose Mark’s illness based on the symptom being a sharp pain instead of a small ache in his head.

Word: Achieve
Meaning: to successfully get or accomplish
Example: I will achieve my goal through patience and diligence.

Word: Achievement
Meaning: a thing done successfully
Example: I consider it an achievement that I learned to control my spending.

Word: Achilles Heel
Meaning: a crippling weakness in an otherwise impenetrable object
Example: Our base seems nearly impenetrable; but our lack of a missile defense system is our Achilles Heel.

Word: Achromatic
Meaning: for something to be colorless usually with black; white and grays
Example: Since the house was newly built; it looked like nobody lived in it due to it achromatic walls and stark rooms.

Word: Acidulous
Meaning: harsh in manner or flavor
Example: The acidulous drink burned my tongue.

Word: Acknowledge
Meaning: to confirm or admit the truth about something
Example: The president will acknowledge the soldiers’ suspicious deaths during his address to the nation.

Word: Acknowledgment
Meaning: the act of recognizing or admitting the truth of something
Example: There is great acknowledgment in America that minimum wage levels are too low.

Word: Acme
Meaning: the highest peak that is reachable
Example: At her acme; the singer was making over thirty million dollars a year.

Word: Acoustic
Meaning: relating to sound or hearing
Example: Enjoying the sound of the acoustic guitar; the crowd nodded along and moved closer to the band.

Word: Acquaint
Meaning: to become at ease with
Example: The faculty mixer is the perfect time for you to acquaint yourself with your teachers.

Word: Acquaintance
Meaning: a person one knows slightly but not well
Example: Ms. Smith was embarrassed that she didn’t know the name of the acquaintance who recognized her at the store.

Word: Acquainted
Meaning: familiar with a specific subject or person
Example: If you are acquainted with the hiring manager; I would love to give him a copy of my resume.

Word: Acquiesce
Meaning: to agree or express agreement
Example: While I did not want to go to the show with Laura; her begging eventually caused me to acquiesce.

Word: Acquiescent
Meaning: willing to acquiesce; accept or agree to something without objection; protest or resistance
Example: More often than not; he possessed an acquiescent nature; which made it easy to work alongside him in combination with his quick thinking and street smarts.

Word: Acquire
Meaning: to obtain something
Example: You will need a great deal of money to acquire the valuable painting.

Word: Acquisition
Meaning: the thing acquired or gained; a gain.
Example: Because he was marrying her; there would be an acquisition of all of her real estate.

Word: Acquisitive
Meaning: eager and capable of making acquisitions 
Example: While I am somewhat acquisitive and can afford to buy anything I want; I try to only purchase things I need.

Word: Acquittal
Meaning: a setting free from the charge of an offense or verdict
Example: After the defendant learned of his acquittal; he jumped for joy.

Word: Acquitted
Meaning: found innocent of a charge or accusation
Example: Even though the judge believed the defendant was guilty; he could say nothing when the jury acquitted the man of all charges.

Word: Acrid
Meaning: bitter and unpleasant in taste or smell
Example: The acrid fumes from the plant made my eyes water.

Word: Acrimonious 
Meaning: angry in tone; bitter
Example: Your acrimonious arguments about religion only sever friendships.

Word: Acrimony
Meaning: a sharp and bitter hatred
Example: Her acrimony for her neighbors manifests itself with shouting and stomping.

Word: Acrobat
Meaning: an athlete who performs acts requiring skill; agility and coordination.
Example: The watchers held their breath as the acrobat crossed the tightrope.

Word: Acronym
Meaning: a term created out of the first letters of a multi-word phrase
Example: In history class; the students learned the acronym NATO stands for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

Word: Acrophobia
Meaning: an unusual dread of elevated places
Example: Because I have acrophobia; I never ride anything other than the Ferris wheel at the amusement park.

Word: Acropolis
Meaning: a stronghold or sanctuary used for defensive and religious purposes in ancient Grecian cities
Example: In the middle of the city; an acropolis of stone walls was erected to act as a shelter during times of war.

Word: Across
Meaning: from one side to another
Example: Swimming across the wide river left the stranded paddler gasping for air.

Word: Action
Meaning: combat; battle
Example: The movie was full of action; with most of the scenes containing fighting or warfare.

Word: Activate
Meaning: to trigger or start something
Example: If you want to use the new debit card; you have to call a new number and activate it.

Word: Activism
Meaning: a strategy of undertaking direct action to achieve a social or political goal
Example: Protesting the war is a type of activism.

Word: Activist
Meaning: a person who campaigns for some kind of social change
Example: The political activist spent hours trying to convince us to vote for Ted.

Word: Activity
Meaning: something that people do; usually with a particular aim or goal in mind
Example: The teacher brought all of the paper; glue; and other items needed for the students to complete the crafting activity.

Word: Actual
Meaning: Real or concrete
Example: Although there is actual proof that they existed; some still don’t believe in dinosaurs.

Word: Actuality
Meaning: the state of existing; existence
Example: Although it was thought that no one had been working on the project; in actuality Barbara had been trying to get things of the ground for a long time.

Word: Actuate
Meaning: to trigger a movement or action
Example: The teenager touched the screen to actuate the mobile app.

Word: Acuity
Meaning: sharpness in relation to thought; vision; or hearing
Example: In order for my daughter to get into the school’s gifted program; she had to take a mental acuity test.

Word: Acumen
Meaning: experience or expertise in something
Example: John’s business acumen; along with his computer skills; made him an asset to the software company.

Word: Acupuncture
Meaning: a medical practice in which thin needles are inserted into specific points of the body as a way to relieve pain or treat disease
Example: As soon as the acupuncture needles entered the man’s spine; he felt relief from his pain.

Word: Acute
Meaning: extremely pressing; critical
Example: Because my appendicitis was an acute issue; the nurse took me directly into an emergency station for treatment.

Word: Acuteness
Meaning: sharpness; insight
Example: The boy’s acuteness made him an excellent chess player.

Word: Ad hoc
Meaning: made for a particular reason
Example: Some of the men in our neighborhood have formed an ad hoc safety patrol to deter crime.

Word: Ad hominem
Meaning: a statement made during an argument or debate that is a personal attack or insult against the other person and not their opinion/stance
Example: During the debate; the politician’s ad hominem attack went after his opponent’s hair and makeup instead of her policies.

Word: Ad nauseam
Meaning: refer to something has been done or repeated so often that it has become annoying
Example: The woman’s ultimatums were ad nauseam; her constant threats to divorce eventually pushing her husband away.

Word: Adage
Meaning: old saying that has come to be accepted as truth over time
Example: He gets tired of all the same old sayings; so he is always trying to come up with a new adage.

Word: Adamant
Meaning: refusing to be persuaded; cannot change one's mind
Example: Robert; a first year physics student; is adamant in his decision to peruse a career in engineering.

Word: Adamantine
Meaning: unyielding; firm and unbreakable
Example: The hero was adamantine and stuck to his values no matter what problem he faced.

Word: Adapt
Meaning: get used to something new or change to fit
Example: When James relocates to a different side of the country; he will have to adapt to a new weather pattern.

Word: Adaptable
Meaning: able to change
Example: When dogs live in the wild; their bodies must be adaptable to the environment or they will suffer.

Word: Adaptation
Meaning: an alteration that makes an animal or thing more suitable for a certain environment
Example: This adaptation of the novel was written so the story could be performed as a play.

Word: Addend
Meaning: a number added to another number
Example: I asked our math teacher to help me with the addend in my math problem.

Word: Addendum
Meaning: something to be added; especially text added as an appendix or supplement to a document
Example: Maria’s article was written in 1965; but it was updated with an addendum in recent years.

Word: Addict
Meaning: someone that is obsessed with something to an extent where they suffer withdrawal without it
Example: My baby brother is a sugar addict; unable to go even two hours without consuming some sort of sweet to sate his obsession.

Word: Addictive
Meaning: something that is easy to be addicted to; easy to develop a reliance on
Example: This game is extremely addictive; having roped me into playing it for over six hours even though I only planned to play for one.

Word: Additional
Meaning: added or extra
Example: Additional charges will be added if you do not pay the bill on time.

Word: Additionally
Meaning: used in the place of ‘also’ or to introduce extra facts
Example: We started out with just one floor; but additionally; another was added.

Word: Addle
Meaning: to cause a person’s thoughts to become jumbled or confused
Example: Is it true smoking marijuana can addle your brain and make it difficult for you to concentrate?

Word: Addled
Meaning: incapable of thinking in a clear manner
Example: Because my grandmother is in her mid-nineties; she is a bit addled at times and requires the aid of a personal caregiver.

Word: Address
Meaning: a description of the location of a property
Example: The pizza delivery man had no problem finding my address to deliver my order.

Word: Adduce
Meaning: to produce as support during a discussion or argument
Example: During the trial the defense attorney will adduce evidence to show the defendant’s innocence.

Word: Adduction
Meaning: the act of bringing a body part usually an arm or leg inward to the middle part of the body
Example: When the patient’s adduction of her knee up to her waist caused agonizing pain; the doctor recommended that she return to standing straight on her two feet.

Word: Adept
Meaning: very good at doing something that is not easy
Example: Mark is an adept juggler who can easily manager four balls in the air without dropping one.

Word: Adequacy
Meaning: being satisfactory or acceptable
Example: The adequacy of the program is being questioned since few seem to graduate after starting.

Word: Adequacy
Meaning: the quality of being sufficient; adequate or able to meet the needs
Example: It’s important to review the adequacy of your medical insurance coverage each year.

Word: Adequate
Meaning: enough; good enough
Example: Adequate water intake is necessary for your body to function properly.

Word: Adhere
Meaning: conform to or follow rules exactly
Example: When I tell you to sit down; adhere to my order!

Word: Adherence
Meaning: faithful support for a cause 
Example: The teacher demanded the students adherence to the rules while in her classroom.

Word: Adherent
Meaning: a material that sticks to other things or a person who supports a particular party; person; or set of ideas
Example: The adherent properties of Super Glue are so strong that some people have had to go to the ER to get un-stuck from something.

Word: Adhesion
Meaning: a substance’s ability to attach to another substance
Example: For sturdier adhesion; apply hot glue to the sequins prior to attaching them to the leotard.

Word: Adhesive
Meaning: sticky
Example: Mom does not like to use Elmer’s glue because she claims that our project requires a stronger adhesive.

Word: Adieu
Meaning: a farewell; a goodbye; especially a fond farewell; or a lasting or permanent farewell
Example: We bid each other adieu after the movies by giving one another a hug.

Word: Adjacent
Meaning: lying next to; close; or contiguous; neighboring
Example: When the opposing attorneys asked for a sidebar with the judge; the jury was sent to wait in an adjacent area.

Word: Adjoining
Meaning: next to or joined with something else
Example: The travelers requested adjoining rooms so that they would be beside each other.

Word: Adjourn 
Meaning: to suspend or conclude an event
Example: After church services adjourn at one o’clock; we will have our monthly picnic.

Word: Adjudge
Meaning: to view or determine something in a particular manner
Example: Because of your drug problem; the court will probably adjudge you to be an unfit mother.

Word: Adjudicate 
Meaning: to make a decision on an issue
Example: The administrative board will adjudicate on the terms of the doctor’s suspension for misconduct.

Word: Adjunct
Meaning: something that is joined or added to another thing; but not part of the whole
Example: My math teacher was adjunct faculty and did not work for the school full time.

Word: Adjure
Meaning: request or urge someone to do something
Example: I had to adjure myself to stay awake; despite having not slept in two days.

Word: Adjust
Meaning: to change something a little so that it fits or works better
Example: The distraught teacher preferred her students to adjust their attitude before she initiated her next plan of referring those students to the office.

Word: Adjustment
Meaning: a small change that improves something or makes it work better
Example: The academic advisor made an adjustment to the college student’s classes so that it would fit better with her work schedule.

Word: Adjutant
Meaning: A military officer that is an administrative assistant to a senior officer
Example: Lieutenant Tirado is my adjutant; taking care of administrative duties when my position as a Colonel demands my attention.

Word: Administer
Meaning: to supply or give out something
Example: The nurse will administer pain medicine every four hours.

Word: Administer
Meaning: to give; handout; or dispense
Example: A nurse came into the patient’s hospital room to change his sheets and administer his nightly medication.

Word: Administration
Meaning: the process of running some sort of organization
Example: I do not wish to work in administration because I do not like being in charge of other people; though I still have to order around a few people in my work.

Word: Admirable
Meaning: worthy of respect and admiration
Example: The colonel is an admirable man who has won numerous medals of valor.

Word: Admiration
Meaning: a sentiment of esteem and respect
Example: When the teacher retired; she was given a gold watch in admiration of her fifty years of service to the county.

Word: Admire
Meaning: to hold a thing or person in high esteem
Example: As a former soldier; I admire all the men and women who are currently serving in the military.

Word: Admissible
Meaning: something that is allowed or considered appropriate
Example: Judge Taylor declared the evidence against the defendant admissible in court which became detrimental to the defense’s case.

Word: Admit
Meaning: to acknowledge that something is real; valid; or true
Example: It took the woman a long time to admit she has a drinking problem.

Word: Admittedly
Meaning: certainly; definitely
Example: The joke was admittedly risky but the crowd didn’t seem to mind much.

Word: Admonish
Meaning: to scold; to warn strongly
Example: Do not admonish him for being gay!

Word: Admonition
Meaning: a warning or reprimand given with advice
Example: Gerald’s admonition against the other police officers served as a warning to those doing wrong in the organization.

Word: Admonitory
Meaning: conveying a warning
Example: The teacher’s voice had an admonitory tone as she told the students to stop talking or lose recess.

Word: Ado
Meaning: trouble; difficulty; or complications
Example: There was a great deal of ado in trying to stop the committee from cancelling the school talent show; but all of the trouble was worth it since we succeeded.

Word: Adobe
Meaning: sundried bricks made of clay
Example: The village dwellings were adobe style and were crafted from clay and water.

Word: Adolescence
Meaning: the time period when a young person becomes a grownup
Example: When children reach the period of adolescence; they crave freedom to make their own choices.

Word: Adonis
Meaning: a very handsome young man
Example: “Look at that Adonis;” the girl giggled to her friend as the handsome new freshman walked into the cafeteria.

Word: Adopt
Meaning: a legal process to take care of another’s biological child as your own
Example: Many childless couples will adopt the less fortunate children from around the globe.

Word: Adoptive
Meaning: related to someone through adoption (becoming a parent or child of someone not by birth)
Example: The little girl’s adoptive parents gained legal custody of her when she was just two weeks old.

Word: Adoptive
Meaning: related through adoption
Example: Because her adoptive parents were so wonderful while raising her; the young woman had no desire to meet the birth family who had given her up.

Word: Adorable
Meaning: charming and easy to love because it is so attractively cute
Example: With an adorable smile; the delightful toddler stole the hearts of everyone in the room.

Word: Adoration
Meaning: deep love; devotion; and respect
Example: The young man’s adoration for the new girl in class was evident when the teacher called him out for staring at her.

Word: Adore
Meaning: to idolize or worship something; or to love it very much
Example: My mother loves to adore me in public even though I find it embarrassing; praising me in front of everyone as if I were still a child.

Word: Adorn
Meaning: make more attractive or beautiful
Example: George likes to adorn his office with expensive paintings so that everyone knows how wealthy he is.

Word: Adornment
Meaning: an ornament or decoration that adds attractiveness
Example: The plain tree need an adornment; so a silver star was added to the top.

Word: Adrenaline
Meaning: a chemical produced by your adrenal glands that gives you a rush of energy when you are frightened; excited; or angry
Example: I had a rush of adrenaline as I jumped out of the airplane.

Word: Adrift
Meaning: uncontrolled floating on water 
Example: The U.S. Coast Guard located two boats adrift in the ocean after a storm passed through.

Word: Adroit
Meaning: clever or skillful
Example: The child was an adroit pianist at an early age.

Word: Adscititious
Meaning: additional or external; coming from an outside source
Example: The supplemental information was adscititious and wasn’t a part of the original investigation.

Word: Adulation
Meaning: great praise for someone; often more than what is deserved
Example: Although Jason was a famous celebrity; he was very uncomfortable with the adulation from his fans.

Word: Adulterate
Meaning: to make a substance less pure by adding something else to it
Example: If you want to adulterate your alcoholic drink; you should add some water to it.

Word: Adultery
Meaning: sexual activity between a married person and someone other than their spouse
Example: The attorney’s marriage was ruined by his decision to commit adultery with his secretary.

Word: Adulthood
Meaning: the state or condition of being fully grown or mature
Example: In the United States; a child reaches adulthood at the age of 18.

Word: Adumbrate
Meaning: to create an outline or a faint shadow 
Example: With assistance from the victim; the sketch artist will adumbrate a picture of the robbery suspect.

Word: Advance
Meaning: before; ahead of time
Example: The concert goers bought their tickets in advance so they wouldn’t end up with terrible seats.

Word: Advanced
Meaning: progressive; complex or of a higher order
Example: Advanced courses are offered for students who want to progress quickly in a subject.

Word: Advantage
Meaning: a condition or circumstance that gives someone a greater chance of success
Example: The thief took advantage of the light security on New Year’s Eve to empty every cash register in the mall.

Word: Advantageous
Meaning: helpful or useful and likely to make you more successful
Example: It would be advantageous for the couple to buy the bedroom set while it was on sale.

Word: Advent
Meaning: the coming or arrival of something
Example: With the advent of the internet; working from home has become a real phenomenon.

Word: Adventitious
Meaning: not natural; foreign
Example: The weird-looking plant is adventitious and not native to this country.

Word: Adventure
Meaning: an exciting or dangerous experience
Example: Setting off on an adventure; Peter Pan hoped to avoid any pitfalls that would put him in the hand of Captain Hook.

Word: Adventuresome
Meaning: adventurous or prone to going on adventures
Example: My adventuresome friend is constantly looking for ways to explore new places; see new things; and meet new people.

Word: Adventurous
Meaning: daring; brave
Example: Bold and adventurous; the dare devil was always looking for a new exploit to undertake.

Word: Adversary
Meaning: one's opponent in a contest; conflict; or dispute
Example: I will destroy my adversary during our battle.

Word: Adverse
Meaning: negative; harmful; or unpleasant
Example: Jim’s adverse reaction to the drug was so intense that we rushed him to the hospital.

Word: Adversely
Meaning: in a negative or bad way
Example: If the medicine adversely changes your health; you should stop taking it immediately.

Word: Adversity
Meaning: a difficult situation or condition; misfortune
Example: Because of the five-year drought; the farmer experienced a long period of adversity.

Word: Advert
Meaning: an advertisement
Example: The newspaper advert announced position openings at the local potato plant.

Word: Advertise
Meaning: to provide information about a person or goods and services to influence others 
Example: Retail stores advertise their sales products by using the newspaper; radio and television to attract customers into their stores.

Word: Advice
Meaning: an opinion recommended or offered; as worthy to be followed; counsel
Example: Beatrice hates to take advice from anyone; which is why she is doomed to fail in everything that she does.

Word: Advisable
Meaning: worthy of being recommended; desirable
Example: It is advisable to fill your tank before heading out on a trip so that you do not waste time worrying about where to find the nearest gas station.

Word: Advise
Meaning: to offer suggestions to a person or group
Example: Could you please advise me on the best way to get to the interstate?

Word: Advisement
Meaning: advice that is both carefully considered and thought out before given
Example: The homeowners association calls meetings for neighborhood members to voice their opinions on important issues that they were record; take under advisement; and use to make decisions for the community in the future.

Word: Advisory
Meaning: an official announcement that usually serves as a warning to the public
Example: The city government released an advisory during the hurricane warning all residents not to go outside.

Word: Advocacy
Meaning: the practice of supporting someone to make their voice heard 
Example: Recently the gun advocacy groups have spoken to Congress with hopes of change to current gun laws.

Word: Advocate
Meaning: to publicly support a particular policy or way of doing things
Example: Any good doctor will advocate healthy eating for his patients.

Word: Aegis
Meaning: under the influence or protection of a specific individual; body; or government
Example: As a young salesman; Stan worked under the aegis of his father who emphasized the value of treating customers fairly.

Word: Aerate
Meaning: to cause air to circulate through something
Example: The cleaners needed to aerate the room to get the strong odor out.

Word: Aerial
Meaning: happening in the air
Example: An aerial view of the city showed just how cluttered and crowded the metropolitan area looks from above.

Word: Aerie
Meaning: a nest built in a high place by a predatory bird 
Example: While hiking in the hills; we spotted a hawk leave it’s aerie on the cliff.

Word: Aerobic
Meaning: activity used to strengthen the heart and lungs by making them work hard for several minutes
Example: The aerobic component of the test consists of a strenuous one-mile hike.

Word: Aerodynamics
Meaning: the study of air and how it works when an object moves through it
Example: Birds have a natural understanding of aerodynamics that allows them to fly through even the windiest conditions.

Word: Aeronautics
Meaning: the science of flight
Example: A Boeing 727 was donated to the college’s aeronautics program for further flight studies.

Word: Aerosol
Meaning: substances confined under pressure and typically released in the form of a spray
Example: A well-known form of aerosol is Febreeze; which is a spray that is released from under pressure to eliminate bad odors.

Word: Aerospace
Meaning: the atmosphere of the Earth and the region of space around it; the industry concerned with aircraft; missiles; satellites and spacecraft
Example: From the aerospace department of the scientific company; many reports revealed their aviation problems were due to human error.

Word: Aesthete
Meaning: one who strongly appreciates beauty; art and music
Example: The aesthete obtained box tickets to the opera.

Word: Aesthetic
Meaning: concerning or characterized by an appreciation of beauty or good taste
Example: Our aesthetic enjoyment of the art show was increased by the presence of the open bar.

Word: Afar
Meaning: in a distant area
Example: Everyone could tell that the stranger came from afar due to his unknown accent.

Word: Afebrile
Meaning: having no fever
Example: Garry worried that his girl was running a fever; but the doctor assured him that she was afebrile.

Word: Affable
Meaning: friendly; good-natured; or easy to talk to
Example: Instead of being such a jerk; you should try being more affable!

Word: Affair
Meaning: an issue or concern that is handled
Example: Stealing office supplies became a company affair when the company began to lose money due to the theft.

Word: Affect
Meaning: to change or influence
Example: If the boy had known skipping class would negatively affect his grades; he would never have missed his lectures.

Word: Affectation
Meaning: an unnatural form of behavior that is meant to impress others
Example: Jake’s proper manner of speaking was an affectation he put on when he was surrounded by the country club set.

Word: Affection
Meaning: a feeling of love or strong attachment
Example: Rick expressed deep affection for his wife at their fortieth anniversary party.

Word: Affectionate
Meaning: loving
Example: My sister is very affectionate and always gives me a goodbye hug.

Word: Affidavit 
Meaning: a statement made under oath that is verified by a person of authority
Example: The affidavit is certified by a notary public and confirms I personally signed the document.

Word: Affiliated
Meaning: formally associated with a group or organization
Example: After being fired; the doctor was no longer affiliated with the hospital.

Word: Affiliation
Meaning: the involvement or connection that somebody has with a religious or political organization
Example: The interviewer acted in rude fashion when questioning the candidates about their religious affiliation.

Word: Affinity
Meaning: a natural liking or attraction for someone or something
Example: Although Adam is very different than me; I have an affinity for him which I cannot describe.

Word: Affirm
Meaning: to publicly verify something
Example: Tonight; the police will affirm the suspect’s identity on national television.

Word: Affirmation
Meaning: an action of approval or support
Example: I enjoyed the food critic’s affirmation in his column after he dined in my restaurant.

Word: Affix
Meaning: to stick; attach; or fasten
Example: I plan to affix a stamp on every one of the hundreds of envelopes that we need to mail out.

Word: Afflatus
Meaning: a skill or gift that seems to be given by a God or higher power
Example: The dancer was struck with afflatus and moved like she was gifted with skills from the gods.

Word: Afflicted
Meaning: stricken; distressed; or impaired
Example: The man was afflicted with a painful snake bite after a hike on the mountain.

Word: Affliction
Meaning: a state of pain; suffering; distress or agony
Example: Although some people claim that she is lucky because she can’t gain weight; she considers it an affliction.

Word: Affluence
Meaning: a situation in which one has a great amount of wealth
Example: When the economy crashed; many people of affluence became poor.

Word: Affluent
Meaning: wealthy; rich
Example: Only affluent families could afford the top-dollar price tags attached to the homes in that neighborhood.

Word: Afford
Meaning: have enough money to pay for something
Example: The bum claimed he couldn’t pay his bills; but always found a way to afford cigarettes and booze.

Word: Affray
Meaning: a disruptive fight
Example: What began as a simple squabble between friends turned into an affray among several people.

Word: Affright
Meaning: fright; fear 
Example: Ghosts and goblins haunted the house; leaving the children in affright.

Word: Affront
Meaning: to do or say something that shows a lack of respect 
Example: The crooked cop is an affront to all that is good about law enforcement.

Word: Aficionado
Meaning: an expert or enthusiast who is extremely knowledgeable about a subject or activity
Example: A wine tasting aficionado; Lynn is convinced that no one has sampled as many different types of vino as she has.

Word: Afield
Meaning: far away from their comfortable environment
Example: While working afield in a foreign country; the young businessman was completely lost as to how to communicate or act in this new place.

Word: Afloat
Meaning: floating or balancing on top of liquid
Example: An overturned life raft was able to keep several of the Titanic passengers afloat until help arrived.

Word: Afoot 
Meaning: in action
Example: As the suspicious dictator looked around the room at his advisers; he felt as though treachery was afoot.

Word: Aforementioned
Meaning: regarding someone or something spoken about previously
Example: Any of the aforementioned applicants will make great company employees.

Word: Aforesaid
Meaning: previously mentioned
Example: After pleading my case to my mom; I went to my dad and repeated the aforesaid points in hopes that he would let me go to the mall.

Word: Afraid
Meaning: scared or frightened
Example: The toddler is afraid of the dark and will not sleep without a nightlight.

Word: Aftermath
Meaning: the aftereffects or consequences of an unpleasant or destructive event
Example: More frightening than the hurricane was the aftermath and incomprehensible task of rebuilding.

Word: Afterthought
Meaning: something you think of or mention later because it was not included beforehand
Example: Often considered as an afterthought; Nick realized that he was not valued by the basketball team.

Word: Afterwards
Meaning: following; after a previous event
Example: I will take you to the park; but afterwards we must clean the house.

Word: Against
Meaning: anti; not in favor of
Example: Many people were against the war and didn’t think we should be fighting overseas.

Word: Agape
Meaning: open
Example: Before you eat oysters; clams; or mussels; always check to be sure that the shells are firmly closed and not even a little bit agape.

Word: Age
Meaning: the amount of time someone or something has been living
Example: The youthful woman’s age was actually much older it appeared to be.

Word: Agency
Meaning: a business; usually government related; that provides a particular service
Example: As head of the agency; the top-manager was in charge of all spending decisions.

Word: Agenda
Meaning: a list of matters to be discussed at a meeting
Example: Without a clear agenda for what is to be accomplished I feel that the meeting will be a waste of time.

Word: Agent
Meaning: a person who acts on behalf of an individual or some other group
Example: My insurance agent sold me a new life insurance policy through the company he works for.

Word: Agglomeration
Meaning: a collection or mass of things
Example: The mayor has an agglomeration of complaints against him; which is why he may not be in office much longer.

Word: Aggrandize
Meaning: make great or greater in power; rank; honor; or wealth; increase
Example: I attempted to aggrandize the CEO’s high status in the company to sweet talk him into signing off on the deal.

Word: Aggrandizement
Meaning: an increase in power; importance; or reputation that is undeserved
Example: Suzan suggests that aggrandizement of one’s self-worth may be a desperate attempt to boost one’s low self-esteem.

Word: Aggravate
Meaning: to make worse; or more severe
Example: I left the party early so the noise would not aggravate my headache.

Word: Aggregate
Meaning: to place into a category or cluster
Example: Schools often use test scores to aggregate students into classes based on intelligence.

Word: Aggregator
Meaning: someone or something that gathers together materials from a variety of sources and combines them into one
Example: The aggregator was able to gather articles from many different websites and condense them into one publication.

Word: Aggression
Meaning: violent and hostile behavior
Example: Seething with aggression; the deranged man was shot after he lunged at police with a knife.

Word: Aggressive
Meaning: pushy or forceful when trying to get others to believe or do something
Example: The aggressive vendor tried to force the tourists into buying his wares.

Word: Aggressor
Meaning: the person or country that first attacks or makes an aggression
Example: Once the two kids were separated; it became obvious who the aggressor was due to his explanation about how he hit first.

Word: Aggrieve
Meaning: to badly mistreat/make upset
Example: If the boy insults my mother and continues to tease and taunt me; he would prove he knows how to aggrieve me.

Word: Aggrieved
Meaning: angry or resentful due to unjust treatment
Example: Parking almost fifteen feet from the corner; the aggrieved driver tore up the ticket he received for parking too close to the intersection.

Word: Aghast
Meaning: shocked or surprised in an upsetting way
Example: The teacher was aghast at the large number of students who failed the easy test.

Word: Agile
Meaning: able to move fast and easily
Example: Because he practiced parkour; he was an extremely agile athlete.

Word: Agility
Meaning: nimbleness and quickness of motion; both physically and figuratively
Example: The coach was amazed at Jim’s agility on the court; especially the way he switches direction without pause.

Word: Agitate
Meaning: to disturb or upset
Example: Barking at the dog will only agitate him further.

Word: Agitated
Meaning: upset; disturbed
Example: Barbara felt agitated when her husband did not pick up his phone; especially since she had been calling all day.

Word: Agitation
Meaning: a stirring up or arousing; disturbance of tranquility 
Example: The father of one made no attempt to hide his agitation while viewing his son’s failing report card.

Word: Agitprop
Meaning: something that looks like art but is actually political propaganda or misinformation
Example: Many documentaries come across as entertainment but this one is a political agitprop that is being used to deceive people.

Word: Agnostic
Meaning: unsure about the existence of a god or holy being
Example: After my husband became agnostic; he stopped going to church because of his doubt about god's existence.

Word: Agnostic
Meaning: someone who believes there is no way to know if God does or does not exist
Example: As an agnostic; Devin questioned whether there is any proof that a God created the universe.

Word: Agnostic
Meaning: a person who knows there is no way to know if God exists or not
Example: The agnostic woman has read the Bible and other religious texts but still doesn’t think there is a way to prove that God exists.

Word: Agog
Meaning: filled with anticipation and excitement
Example: The little kids were agog as they waited for Santa Claus to arrive.

Word: Agonize
Meaning: to endure a great deal of distress
Example: After resigning from my job; I started to agonize over my decision.

Word: Agonizing
Meaning: distressing; painful
Example: The pain of breaking my femur was agonizing.

Word: Agony
Meaning: intense pain or suffering
Example: When my brother died; I was in emotional agony for months.

Word: Agoraphobia
Meaning: the fear of wide open spaces; crowds; or uncontrolled social conditions
Example: Even the big deals on Black Friday could bring out even those people who suffer from agoraphobia; but the large groups of people could cause them to have anxiety attacks.

Word: Agrarian
Meaning: associated with land cultivation
Example: An agrarian college prepares men and women for careers in land cultivation.

Word: Agree
Meaning: to say yes or give consent
Example: My father wishes I would agree to move back home; but I enjoy living by myself.

Word: Agreeable
Meaning: nice and good; pleasant
Example: After considerable negotiations; both parties became agreeable by each side giving in to some part of the situation.

Word: Agreement
Meaning: a contract or deal
Example: By signing an agreement with the lawyer; the client agreed to pay two thousand dollars for his services.

Word: Agribusiness
Meaning: any business that has to do with agriculture and supplies associated with farming
Example: John Deere is a well known agribusiness that supplies many farms with bright green tractors.

Word: Agriculture
Meaning: the discipline of farming
Example: The state manages a department of agriculture which provides support to farmers.

Word: Agronomy
Meaning: science of soil management and crop production
Example: Personally I find agronomy to be a rather boring science; but someone has to study all the ways we can make crop production more efficient.

Word: Ague
Meaning: a fever that causes you to shake; sweat and feel cold
Example: Dr. Frank determined that his patient acquired ague based on the symptoms but; he realized it was not malaria because the patient had not visited tropical areas lately.

Word: Aha moment
Meaning: a moment of sudden insight
Example: The scientist had an aha moment and figured out how to cure the deadly disease.

Word: Ahead
Meaning: to move forward from current placement
Example: The determined student tried to get ahead on her homework by completing her project two weeks in advance.

Word: Ahem
Meaning: an utterance similar to the sound of clearing one's throat; used to attract attention or fill in a pause
Example: “Ahem;” the man breathed nervously as he cleared his throat.

Word: Aid
Meaning: to back or help someone or something so they are successful
Example: Red Cross workers usually aid in the recovery of victims of natural disasters by providing medical care to those who are injured.

Word: Ail
Meaning: a trouble; symptom; or affliction
Example: A common ail that afflicts people when they have a cold is a runny nose; but that is just one of the sinus issues that come along with that.

Word: Ailing 
Meaning: not feeling well
Example: We do not expect my ailing grandfather to live much longer.

Word: Ailment
Meaning: a condition that affects a person’s mental or physical wellbeing
Example: Unfortunately; the stomach ailment causes vomiting and chronic diarrhea.

Word: Ailurophile
Meaning: a person who loves cats
Example: The neighborhood children only saw the ailurophile as a nutty cat lady.

Word: Aim
Meaning: to point something in a certain direction
Example: The hunter began to aim his bow at the deer as soon as it came out of the clearing.

Word: Aimlessly
Meaning: without an aim; purpose or direction
Example: I love to spend my weekends wandering aimlessly through the streets of Manhattan; checking out stores and shops that pique my interest.

Word: Air
Meaning: the invisible mixture of gases that covers the earth
Example: A tasty odor in the air seemed to float through around the kitchen.

Word: Aisle
Meaning: a clear path between rows of seating
Example: The bus ride home was so packed that anyone without a seat was forced to sit in the center aisle.

Word: Ajar
Meaning: slightly opened
Example: She left her bedroom door ajar; so I figured it was safe to enter.

Word: Akimbo
Meaning: with the hand on the hip and elbow turned outward
Example: Mom looked at the mess in my room; arms akimbo; and began yelling at the top of her lungs.

Word: Akin
Meaning: similar in nature
Example: For Elizabeth; divorcing her ninth husband was akin to throwing out old shoes and buying a new pair.

Word: Alabaster
Meaning: a smooth; white; and often translucent hard material that is typically carved
Example: Her smooth; white skin resembled alabaster sculptures.

Word: Alacritous
Meaning: being eager and willing
Example: The alacritous recruit was ready to join the Army and signed up the day he turned eighteen.

Word: Alacrity
Meaning: Cheerful willingness and eagerness
Example: Having studied really hard last night; the student took the exam with alacrity.

Word: Alas
Meaning: disappointingly; unfortunately
Example: Alas the reviews for Jared’s book were awful; and as such; the book’s sales were dismal.

Word: Albatross
Meaning: a species of large seafaring bird that is found mostly in the south Pacific
Example: An albatross has a significantly larger wingspan than a seagull; but personally I think they’re nearly the same bird.

Word: Albeit
Meaning: even though; although
Example: I am a huge fan of Madonna’s music; albeit I do not own any of her albums.

Word: Albinism
Meaning: an inherited condition that one is born with that involves lack of color in the pigment that colors hair; skin; and eyes
Example: The couple’s baby was born with albinism and had hair that was as white as snow.

Word: Alchemist
Meaning: a person who practiced a medieval form of chemistry that dealt with metal transformations
Example: The medieval alchemist spent most of his days trying to change metal to gold.

Word: Alchemy
Meaning: a kind of chemistry that is associated with changing something ordinary into something extraordinary
Example: In the story the fairy godmother used alchemy to turn the pumpkin into a fine carriage.

Word: Alcove
Meaning: a small area that is secluded from a large space
Example: The alcove above the living room is the perfect place for the kids to hang out and play videogames.

Word: Aleatory
Meaning: random; dependent on luck or chance
Example: Rick laughs at anyone who spends money at the slot machines; because it’s a purely aleatory game that has no intellectual component whatsoever.

Word: Alert
Meaning: to strongly make someone or something aware of trouble or something dangerous that is about to occur
Example: Sheriff Taylor needed to alert the citizens of his small town about the approaching large hurricane close to them.

Word: Alfresco
Meaning: outdoors; open to the atmosphere
Example: The park has a really nice restaurant where you can dine alfresco while watching the birds as they come pecking at your food.

Word: Algae
Meaning: an organism often found on or in bodies of water that resembles a plant or moss and uses photosynthesis to supply oxygen
Example: A thin layer of green algae lined the bottom of the dirty swimming pool.

Word: Algorithm
Meaning: set of instructions
Example: Many scientists were required to solve and describe the algorithm for each problem they solved in order to be accepted to the company.

Word: Alias
Meaning: an alternate name used by a person who wishes to keep his or her identity secret
Example: If you’re having a hard time locating Sarah’s blog; try searching for it under her alias; Hannah Martin.

Word: Alibi
Meaning: a reason or excuse why someone could not have done something
Example: While the witness claims the suspect was at the murder scene; the suspect’s alibi places him in another state.

Word: Alien
Meaning: different from the norm or what is considered to be acceptable
Example: Everyone in the room disbelieved the man’s story about being abducted by an alien from another planet.

Word: Alienate
Meaning: to make an individual feel unwanted or removed from a group or relationship 
Example: Teachers will alienate their students if they talk down to them.

Word: Alight
Meaning: to descend from something 
Example: The birds will alight from the sky and then eat from the feeder.

Word: Align
Meaning: line up; straighten
Example: Every afternoon; the teacher has to align the desks that her students have pushed out of place.

Word: Alignment
Meaning: positioning of things so that they are in a straight line
Example: The chiropractor was able to bring the woman’s discs into alignment so that her back would be straight.

Word: Alike
Meaning: similar in a certain way
Example: Because my sister and I are identical twins; we are very much alike in appearance.

Word: Aliment
Meaning: a minor illness or sickness
Example: The boy faked an aliment so that he could stay home and not go to school.

Word: Alimentary
Meaning: of; or relating to food; nutrition or digestion
Example: The esophagus is considered part of the alimentary canal because it is one of the passageways for food.

Word: Alimony
Meaning: payment paid to one’s former spouse to support their living
Example: Alimony payments were made from the wealthy ex-husband to his bitter ex-wife.

Word: Alive
Meaning: living; not dead
Example: The possum played like he was dead; but he was really alive.

Word: All the While
Meaning: in reference to something that happens continuously
Example: We were singing all the while as we drove to our vacation home on the beach; eager to kick back and enjoy ourselves at last.

Word: All the while
Meaning: for that whole period of time; happening continually during that time
Example: We were searching everywhere for our puppy; and all the while; she was sleeping under the front porch.

Word: All-around
Meaning: versatile; able to do many things
Example: Aaron is an all-around athlete who shines in many different sporting events.

Word: Allay
Meaning: to make quiet or calm
Example: A good teacher will work hard to allay the concerns of a new student.

Word: Allegation
Meaning: a claim or a statement saying someone has done something illegal or wrong; which is not necessarily based on facts
Example: The professor made an allegation of cheating against his student.

Word: Allege
Meaning: to claim without evidence
Example: In the lawsuit; the parents allege the school system failed to protect their daughter from bullies.

Word: Alleged
Meaning: questionable; not confirmed
Example: While the alleged suspect was arrested today; he still has to be tried in a court of law.

Word: Allegedly
Meaning: suspected of participating in something immoral or illegal 
Example: According to the witness; the mailman allegedly broke into the woman’s car.

Word: Allegiance
Meaning: loyalty to some cause; nation or ruler
Example: Standing opposite the flag; I placed my right hand on my heart to recite the pledge of allegiance.

Word: Allegory 
Meaning: a representation or story in which personalities and incidents act as symbols depicting beliefs related to human beings or specific situations
Example: Yesterday; Sister Agnes told us a religious allegory that explained why telling falsehoods is unacceptable.

Word: Allele
Meaning: an alternative pattern of a gene that results in a variation of a trait
Example: The dominant allele is the one that determines a physical characteristic or trait.

Word: Alleviate
Meaning: to make something less painful; severe; or serious
Example: Take an aspirin to alleviate your headache.

Word: Alley
Meaning: a narrow passageway
Example: Walking through the dark alley; Giana thought the passageway seemed to be filled with scary sights at every turn.

Word: Alliance
Meaning: an association between parties or states with similar interests
Example: We formed a neighborhood alliance to plan events in our community.

Word: Allies
Meaning: friends or supporters; those who can be trusted
Example: The USSR and Russia were allies in World War II; but their friendship turned to mistrust soon after the conflict ended.

Word: Alliteration
Meaning: the recurrence of consonants at the start of two or more terms 
Example: In poetry; alliteration is sometimes used to create a unique tone by repeating consonant sounds.

Word: Allocate
Meaning: to give out according to a system
Example: I must allocate my weekly salary in a way that allows me to pay all my bills.

Word: Allocation
Meaning: an amount of something that is given out or shared
Example: Inconsistency in allocation of funds led to a negative balance in one account.

Word: Allocution
Meaning: a speech given to a convicted defendant by the judge just prior to sentencing
Example: During the allocution; the convicted party refused to listen to the judge as she spoke.

Word: Allot 
Meaning: to give out proportionately
Example: Since there is only a small cake; my mother will allot each of us a small slice.

Word: Allotment
Meaning: one share of something that has been given out in portions
Example: Staring at the plates on the tables; the bride was happy to see the caterer had given each guest a large allotment of shrimp.

Word: Allow
Meaning: to permit or let something happen
Example: Please allow five days for the package to get from the store to your home.

Word: Allowance
Meaning: a share or portion of something that is granted by another person
Example: Timmy is given an allowance of his mother’s income; but is expected to do well in school and finish his chores.

Word: Allowed
Meaning: permitted or let something happen
Example: Lola’s mom allowed her to spend the night at my house last weekend but wouldn’t let her come over today.

Word: Allowed
Meaning: let or permitted someone to do something
Example: The professor allowed her son to turn his essay in one day late but took points off.

Word: Alloy
Meaning: a mixed metal made by combining two or more others that is usually stronger than pure metals
Example: Alloy wheels are made from a mixture of other metals; making them tougher.

Word: Allude
Meaning: to make an indirect reference
Example: The teacher asked the students to not allude to any online sources in their research papers.

Word: Allure
Meaning: a quality that produces attraction
Example: The woman’s allure was her floral perfume that captivated the man’s senses.

Word: Allusion
Meaning: a statement that refers to something indirectly; an indirect reference
Example: The author’s new book contains an allusion to mythological gods.

Word: Allusion
Meaning: a figure of speech that is used in literature to make an indirect reference to something
Example: The author included an allusion in her speech when she referred to Romeo but didn’t explain who he was.

Word: Allusive
Meaning: implying; hinting or indirectly suggesting something
Example: The man was very allusive when he dropped hints about the gifts he bought for his wife’s birthday.

Word: Alluvial
Meaning: related to alluvium; a deposit of clay; silt; and gravel left by a flowing river in a delta
Example: The sediment around this river delta is alluvial; full of silt and clay that will make the soil extremely fertile.

Word: Ally
Meaning: a friend; someone who is ready to help you
Example: When my friends were arguing; Carly was my ally and defended my actions.

Word: Alma mater
Meaning: the school or college that one attended
Example: My mother wanted me to go to her alma mater; but I chose another school instead.

Word: Almanac
Meaning: an annual calendar with important events and astronomical data
Example: An almanac is not really different from most other calendars; but it also has a great deal of other information in it; like astronomical data needed for farming.

Word: Almighty
Meaning: omnipotent or having complete power
Example: The men seemed to worship the almighty dollar and cared little about anything else.

Word: Almost
Meaning: very nearly but not exactly or entirely
Example: The bandits almost made it to their get-away van; but the police caught them just in time.

Word: Alms
Meaning: items which are given to the needy
Example: If not for the alms given to him by charitable groups; the man would have died of hunger.

Word: Aloft
Meaning: in the air or sky
Example: When the hot air balloon was aloft; they could see everything on the horizon.

Word: Alone
Meaning: having no one else present; on one's own
Example: She loved being alone where no one could bother her and she could relax with a good book.

Word: Along
Meaning: beside or by-the-side of something else
Example: The road along the river was recently closed due to flooding.

Word: Alongside
Meaning: along the side; by the side; side by side with
Example: The students walked alongside each other on the way to school.

Word: Aloof
Meaning: removed or distant either physically or emotionally
Example: The aloof princess stood in a corner alone.

Word: Alpine
Meaning: part of a high mountain
Example: In the alpine village; many skiers would purchase their needed supplies in order to go skiing the next day.

Word: Already
Meaning: at present; even now
Example: The banker couldn’t attend the board meeting since he was already in a loan hearing across town.

Word: Alter ego
Meaning: an alternative personality; identity; or mannerism
Example: Dr. Jekyll’s alter ego is a monster named Mr. Hyde.

Word: Alter
Meaning: to change in some way
Example: The Photoshop expert can alter the picture to make people think you spent your vacation on the beach.

Word: Alteration
Meaning: the condition of being changed
Example: Since I have gained weight; I’ll need a seamstress to make an alteration to my wedding dress.

Word: Altercation
Meaning: a loud and heated disagreement 
Example: The best friends had an altercation over a girl they both liked.

Word: Alternate
Meaning: when one thing comes after another; fluctuate
Example: Instead of choosing one pain reliever; Judy decided to alternate between Aspirin and Tylenol.

Word: Alternative
Meaning: alternative means another possibility that is available
Example: As an alternative to expulsion; the mischievous student opted to attend in-school suspension.

Word: Altimeter
Meaning: an instrument used in an aircraft to measure altitude/the distance above sea or land
Example: An aneroid barometer is an altimeter that is used to detect drops in atmospheric pressure inside an airplane.

Word: Altitude
Meaning: the height of something above sea level or the earth's surface
Example: The pilots began shifting gears in order to gain altitude.

Word: Altitudinous
Meaning: being at or having a very high level of elevation
Example: Because they are so high up the mountain; the altitudinous villages can only be reached by helicopter.

Word: Altruist
Meaning: regard for others without regard for oneself; devotion
Example: He was an altruist; and he loved others better than himself.

Word: Altruistic
Meaning: sincerely concerned about the well being of others
Example: The billionaire is an altruistic man who gives away millions of dollars every year to various charities.

Word: Alum
Meaning: a chemical substance containing aluminum used in dye things or to make the skin tighter
Example: The chemist explained that alum is a compound often used as an astringent to tighten the skin and remove pimples.

Word: Alumna
Meaning: a female graduate of a school or university
Example: The Lake County High School alumna missed her high school days and wished she could relive them.

Word: Alumnus
Meaning: an individual who graduated from or took classes at a specific university; school; or college 
Example: As part of his last will and testament; the wealthy alumnus left his fortune to the university from which he graduated.

Word: Alveoli
Meaning: sacs in the lungs which gather and filter oxygen
Example: The alveoli in the smoker’s lungs were so coated in tar from years of cigarettes that they barely output air.

Word: Amalgam
Meaning: a mixture of unlike items
Example: The potluck supper at the church always consists of an amalgam of foods ranging from apricot salad to zucchini casserole.

Word: Amalgamate
Meaning: to join or combine
Example: The two companies will amalgamate in a mutually beneficial merger next week.

Word: Amalgamation
Meaning: the process of combining two or more companies 
Example: The amalgamation process is sometimes decided upon to avoid bankruptcy.

Word: Amanuensis
Meaning: a secretary whose job is to write or type what someone else is saying
Example: Her Majesty’s amanuensis quickly wrote down all of her extravagant demands.

Word: Amass
Meaning: to bring together a large amount
Example: To start a business; one needs to amass a huge sum of ready money.

Word: Amateur
Meaning: person who engages in a particular activity without pursuing it professionally
Example: Even though I am an amateur singer; I hope to make a career out of it one day.

Word: Amatory
Meaning: associated with expressing erotic or sexual love
Example: The amatory letters described the couple’s steamy love affair.

Word: Amaze
Meaning: to fill with surprise; astonish
Example: Arthur does not fail to amaze everyone with his quick wit and humor.

Word: Amazed
Meaning: shocked; stunned
Example: Amazed by the great temple; the tourist stood in awe of the beautiful building.

Word: Amazement
Meaning: the condition of being surprised or overcome by wonder 
Example: As my boyfriend told me about his plans to propose to another woman; I stared at him in amazement.

Word: Amazing
Meaning: impressive; incredible
Example: Looking up at the amazing pyramid; it was hard for Frank to imagine building something so impressive.

Word: Ambassador 
Meaning: a diplomat of the highest rank who acts as a spokesperson for his country while residing in another nation 
Example: As the Spanish ambassador living in London; Hector gets to interact with many British officials.

Word: Amber
Meaning: a yellowy-tan color 
Example: The dentist noticed the amber color of the woman’s teeth and realized that she probably hadn’t brushed them in a long time.

Word: Ambiance
Meaning: the mood in a place
Example: The scented ambiance of the candle shop made me feel warm and comfortable.

Word: Ambidextrous
Meaning: having equal ability in both hands; in particular; able to write equally well with both hands
Example: The team manager was very excited when he heard that the new pitcher was ambidextrous and could throw a mean fastball with either hand.

Word: Ambient 
Meaning: producing a mood or effect by being present 
Example: The ambient music in the store made people feel good about shopping.

Word: Ambiguity
Meaning: something that does not have a clear meaning
Example: Although Hank wants to sign the contract; he needs to understand the ambiguity of some of the language first.

Word: Ambiguous
Meaning: confusing; difficult to understand
Example: Because his driving directions are ambiguous; I use my reliable map.

Word: Ambition
Meaning: a desire to accomplish (complete) a task
Example: Despite his old age; Frank has a very strong ambition to climb Mount Everest.

Word: Ambitious
Meaning: strongly desirous and determined to succeed
Example: The professor has an easy time controlling his class because the students are ambitious about their studies.

Word: Ambivalence
Meaning: mixed feelings or emotions
Example: Even though the new job meant more money; Tad felt a great deal of ambivalence about accepting the position.

Word: Ambivalent
Meaning: uncertain as to which path to take
Example: When it comes to the election; I am ambivalent about the candidates.

Word: Amble
Meaning: to stroll in a relaxed manner
Example: Since we arrived too early to check into the hotel; we decided to amble down the beach.

Word: Ambrosial
Meaning: appealing to one’s sense of smell or taste 
Example: Because Janice liked the ambrosial scent of the shrubs; she decided to plant a few in her front yard.

Word: Ambulatory 
Meaning: capable of moving around physically
Example: Once Gladys got out of bed and became ambulatory her circulation improved.

Word: Ambuscade
Meaning: a deadly strike
Example: At first the plane’s passengers sat quietly until the hijackers led an ambuscade against the plane’s crew.

Word: Ambush
Meaning: the act of concealing oneself and lying in wait to attack by surprise
Example: A suicide bomber waited in ambush for the right opportunity to detonate his bomb; but was tackled before he had the opportunity.

Word: Ameliorate
Meaning: to make better
Example: Scratching your eye will not ameliorate the itching.

Word: Ameliorate
Meaning: to make something better or more manageable
Example: The police tried to ameliorate the situation after the false arrest; but the family didn’t want to hear their apologies.

Word: Amenable
Meaning: willing to comply or cooperate
Example: My husband never complains about anything and is amenable to all my vacation suggestions.

Word: Amend
Meaning: to make better
Example: Chris said that he would amend the bill before the year’s end due to the public outcry.

Word: Amendment
Meaning: a change or alteration
Example: An amendment was made to the original divorce decree because the wife’s name was spelled wrong.

Word: Amends
Meaning: to fix a mistake that you made or to make a bad situation better; to make right
Example: In an effort to make amends with his girlfriend after cancelling their dinner; he brought her a dozen roses.

Word: Amenity
Meaning: a thing or condition that makes an event or life more enjoyable
Example: The walk-in closet was my favorite amenity in the apartment.

Word: Amiable
Meaning: being nice; displaying a friendly and pleasant manner
Example: Because she was nice to all her fellow students; my cousin Sally was voted the most amiable female at her school.

Word: Amicable
Meaning: showing a polite and friendly desire to avoid disagreement and argument
Example: If you were a bit more amicable; people would not be afraid to approach you.

Word: Amid
Meaning: in the middle of; surrounded by
Example: Amid a crowd of cheering fans; Larry stood out as the one person who was clearly uninterested in the game.

Word: Amidst
Meaning: in the middle or mist of
Example: As I gazed out the back of the car; I saw a lone deer standing amidst the trees on the side of the road.

Word: Amiss
Meaning: improper; wrong
Example: When I saw the lights on in the house after midnight; I knew something was amiss because my grandmother always went to bed early.

Word: Amity
Meaning: a supportive relationship between people or countries
Example: Because of the amity in our subdivision; everyone looks out for each other.

Word: Amnesia
Meaning: loss of memory; forgetfulness
Example: Bob sustained brain damage from the fall; which caused amnesia to set in.

Word: Amnesty
Meaning: a formal pardon or reprieve given to one who has committed a criminal or political offense 
Example: Although Bill Smith was sentenced to life in prison in 1998; he was later released after receiving amnesty from the president.

Word: Amoeba
Meaning: a single-celled animal which catches food and moves about by extending finger-like projections
Example: The amoeba can only be used through a microscope since it is such a tiny animal.

Word: Amok
Meaning: a desire or passion to attack or murder
Example: Terrorists fighting amok in the Middle East was disturbing enough until they would cause the death of people near the city where I lived.

Word: Amongst
Meaning: surrounded by; In the company of
Example: Amongst the bushes; a small rabbit hid from the hunter.

Word: Amoral 
Meaning: not concerned about what is moral or immoral
Example: Hugh grew up to be an amoral man because his parents never told him the difference between right and wrong.

Word: Amorous
Meaning: having or showing strong feelings of sexual attraction or love
Example: The amorous couple could not stop kissing in public.

Word: Amorphous
Meaning: having no clear shape or form
Example: Because the painting was amorphous; I had no idea what it represented.

Word: Amortization
Meaning: the process of determining the cost of something intangible over time
Example: You can try to use amortization to determine the value of something unseen; such as friendship or memories; but ultimately that might still be impossible.

Word: Amortize
Meaning: to the amount of a loan or debt by paying small payments over time
Example: The businessman was able to amortize his building loan by paying monthly payments on the first and the 15th.

Word: Amount
Meaning: the total number or quantity
Example: A large amount of ducks in the area will leave here and fly south for the winter.

Word: Amour
Meaning: a secret lover
Example: Kissing his amour goodbye; the lovesick man could not bear to part from .

Word: Amphibious
Meaning: capable of functioning on land or in water
Example: Frogs are amphibious creatures because they can survive in both land and water.

Word: Amphitheater
Meaning: an open-air theatre used for entertainment; performances; and sports
Example: Tickets to the concert were less expensive since the venue was an outdoor amphitheater.

Word: Ample 
Meaning: an abundant amount
Example: Please feel free to invite friends because there will be ample food and drinks at the party.

Word: Amplify
Meaning: to render larger; more extended; or more intense
Example: We were fine with booking the large ballroom because we knew that the loudspeakers would amplify the sound adequately.

Word: Amplitude
Meaning: the measure of something's size; especially in terms of width or breadth; largeness; magnitude
Example: The amplitude of the student’s knowledge about astronomy and physics was beyond the teacher’s grasp.

Word: Amulet
Meaning: a necklace with an ornament to ward off harm
Example: Dressed in the traditional religious garb; the young woman threw the amulet around her neck in order to be cautious of the hexes.

Word: Amusement
Meaning: fun or entertainment
Example: Some cruel children hurt animals for amusement; but their actions rarely go unpunished; so they don’t enjoy it for long.

Word: Amusing
Meaning: adding humor or fun to something
Example: As Bobo the Clown entertained the group of three-year olds; it made for an amusing time for everyone.

Word: Anachronism
Meaning: "something that doesn't fit its time period; like if you say you'll ""dial"" your smartphone"
Example: Since there were not laptop computers during the Civil War; the presence of a portable computer in the history film is a definite anachronism.

Word: Anaerobic 
Meaning: existing without oxygen
Example: While aerobic organisms need oxygen to survive; anaerobic creatures survive without the element.

Word: Anagram
Meaning: a word formed from the rearranged letters of another word
Example: I find it rather funny that the anagram ‘bad credit’ to ‘debit card’ exists; as a clear representation of how many people flounder with money.

Word: Analogous
Meaning: similar
Example: Because my teacher is analogous to my mother; I have accidentally called her; “mom.”

Word: Analogy
Meaning: a comparison to show similarity between two things
Example: In her analogy; the poet compared love to an endless well.

Word: Analyses 
Meaning: the plural form of analysis that represents the breaking down of larger elements into their smaller features
Example: After several analyses of the blood sample; the coroner was able to identify the toxin that killed the wealthy widow.

Word: Analysis
Meaning: the breaking down of something complex into smaller elements so it can be evaluated
Example: The sheriff was impatient as he waited for the analysis of the fingerprints.

Word: Analyst
Meaning: a qualified person who can decipher data 
Example: The company called for a business analyst to help plan the budget for next year.

Word: Analytical
Meaning: involving the approach of separating a larger item into smaller parts for ease of reviewing
Example: The detective’s analytical mind allowed him to quickly process the crime scene.

Word: Analyze
Meaning: to review thoroughly and in a logical manner
Example: The psychiatrist will analyze the patient’s behaviors and thoughts in order to diagnose the condition.

Word: Anaphase
Meaning: the stage in mitosis in which the cell starts to lengthen and the two members of each chromosome pair separate and move toward opposite poles
Example: During anaphase; the cell’s homologous chromosomes are separated.

Word: Anaphora
Meaning: repetition of a phrase used for emphasis
Example: The poem was a great example of anaphora as it started each line with the same three words.

Word: Anarchist
Meaning: a person who acts against the orders of a ruling body
Example: As an anarchist; Jim is always pointing out the flaws of the government.

Word: Anarchy
Meaning: chaos resulting from a lack of order or authority
Example: As soon as the teacher stepped in the hall; the classroom descended into anarchy.

Word: Anathema
Meaning: something or someone that one strongly dislikes; someone who is cursed or shunned
Example: After the world learned of his heinous crimes; the dictator was considered an anathema.

Word: Anatomical
Meaning: structural; bodily
Example: The animal’s anatomical makeup includes several stomachs.

Word: Anatomy
Meaning: the review of a plant or animal’s structure
Example: In our anatomy class; we learned about the shapes and sizes of the organs in the human body.

Word: Ancestor
Meaning: a member of your family who lived a long time ago
Example: While researching my family tree; I noticed an ancestor of mine was born in Iceland at the turn of the century.

Word: Ancestor
Meaning: family relative or thing that existed long ago
Example: While researching my family tree; I noticed an ancestor of mine was born in Iceland at the turn of the century.

Word: Ancestral
Meaning: referring to the family’s predecessors
Example: Since my ancestral chart only showed my relatives who were blood related to me; I had to consult the family tree to determine the name of my great-aunt’s second husband.

Word: Anchor
Meaning: a person or mainstay that can be relied on for support or security
Example: Chicken is the chef’s anchor ingredient when he can’t come up with any creative dishes.

Word: Ancient
Meaning: referring to something that is extremely old or something that happened long ago
Example: To the boy; his grandfather was nearly ancient at eighty years of age.

Word: Ancillary
Meaning: in addition to the main unit; worker; or task
Example: If we start the ancillary generators; we should have enough power to keep the main generator online.

Word: Andragogy
Meaning: the practice of teaching adult learners
Example: Some teachers prefer andragogy because they would rather teach adults students than children; being less hassle.

Word: Androgynous
Meaning: partly female and partly male in appearance
Example: As an androgynous; Patrick’s gender will remain uncertain indefinitely.

Word: Anecdotal
Meaning: not necessarily true or dependable; because based on someone's personal experience and not on facts or research
Example: The anecdotal nature of the interview will never be considered proof enough in a court of law.

Word: Anecdote
Meaning: a brief; often funny; telling of something that happened 
Example: Jillian’s anecdote about her crowded flight made us all laugh.

Word: Anecdote
Meaning: an interesting or amusing short story
Example: My favorite anecdote tells the story of an adventurous dog making his way through the city.

Word: Anemia
Meaning: a medical condition in which your blood does not transport enough oxygen to the rest of your body; either because of too few red blood cells; or because of too little hemoglobin
Example: When Frank was diagnosed with a red blood cell condition called anemia; we understood why he had been feeling so weary lately.

Word: Anemic
Meaning: exhausted; weak
Example: Although the woman was anemic; she made one final push in order to deliver her baby.

Word: Anesthetize
Meaning: to give a person or animal medication that will put them in an unconscious or comatose state 
Example: The doctor will anesthetize the patient using Propofol so that he feels no pain during surgery.

Word: Aneurysm
Meaning: an abnormal blood-filled bulge of a blood vessel and especially an artery resulting from weakening as from disease of the vessel wall 
Example: During a brain aneurysm; an artery fills with blood and blows up like a balloon before leaking blood into the brain.

Word: Anew
Meaning: to take place once more
Example: After divorcing her husband last year; she married anew to a man she only knew for about three months.

Word: Anfractuous
Meaning: having many winding twists and turns
Example: The couple struggled to get through the anfractuous maze; constantly getting lost in the twists and turns.

Word: Angelic
Meaning: pure and innocent like an angel
Example: The woman’s pure voice sounded both angelic and beautiful.

Word: Anger
Meaning: a strong feeling of being annoyed; irritated; or hostile
Example: Pounding his fists in anger; the upset toddler demanded that his mother feed him lunch.

Word: Angrily
Meaning: with rage
Example: The woman yelled angrily at her cheating spouse.

Word: Angry
Meaning: having a strong feeling of being upset or annoyed
Example: Even if I am angry at my husband; I try not to go to bed still upset.

Word: Angst
Meaning: a mood associated with intense worry and unhappiness
Example: A day before the fight; the inexperienced boxer was plagued with angst about losing his first match.

Word: Anguish
Meaning: extreme suffering or grief
Example: When my husband died; the anguish I felt was nearly unbearable.

Word: Angular
Meaning: so thin or skinny that one’s bones can be seen 
Example: The angular boy was so thin you could see his rib cage.

Word: Anhedonia
Meaning: the physical and mental inability to get feelings of pleasure from typically enjoyable activities
Example: Depressed individuals suffer from anhedonia because what used to bring them joy only fills them with sadness.

Word: Anhydrous
Meaning: describes a substance that has no water
Example: The anhydrous mineral is unique because it lacks water in its makeup.

Word: Animadversion
Meaning: a judgmental remark or criticism
Example: The judge warned the hostile lawyer to not make another animadversion to the witness.

Word: Animal
Meaning: a living; breathing organism
Example: Amber’s favorite animal is a lion as she likes the way he roars when he’s mad.

Word: Animate
Meaning: to become enlivened and stimulated
Example: Once the upbeat music began; it seemed to animate the toddlers into jumping and dancing all around the room.

Word: Animated
Meaning: active and energetic
Example: In order to get the attention of her students; the animated teacher would throw her hands wildly around and move quickly around the room to explain a concept.

Word: Animation
Meaning: the technique causing images to appear to move 
Example: Due to the computer animation; it is now possible to make cartoon films more quickly.

Word: Animism
Meaning: a belief that natural objects have spirits
Example: The philosopher argued that he does not support animism because of how rocks seem to clearly lack any kind of vitality.

Word: Animosity
Meaning: a strong feeling of disliking someone or something
Example: Why do you have such animosity towards me when I have done nothing to you?

Word: Animus
Meaning: an intense feeling of loathing or disgust; hatred
Example: My animus towards my roommate stems from the fact he is constantly stealing my food.

Word: Annals
Meaning: a record of historical events (in chronological order)
Example: The annals of the museum held many interesting artifacts.

Word: Anneal
Meaning: to heat and slow cool metal or glass in order to toughen it
Example: The welder was able to anneal the metal; heating it to make it stronger.

Word: Annex 
Meaning: a new part of a building or dwelling
Example: Once the annex is built; we will move the Asian artifacts to that section of the building.

Word: Annexation
Meaning: the official action of securing something by taking it over; often relating to land
Example: To obtain lower property taxes; the citizens of the standalone area voted to approve their district’s annexation into a nearby town.

Word: Annihilate
Meaning: to destroy; to eradicate
Example: During the war; our soldiers will annihilate the enemy and secure our land.

Word: Anniversary
Meaning: the date on which an even took place the year before
Example: Celebrating their anniversary with a candlelit dinner; the couple was happy to be married for another year.

Word: Annotate
Meaning: to add notes to a text or diagram in order to provide additional insight and understanding about something
Example: The student is free to annotate the textbook with notes; as well as to highlight any text that they choose.

Word: Annotation
Meaning: a note or comment added to a document or book
Example: Surprisingly; my critical professor returned the rough draft of my essay without a single annotation.

Word: Announce
Meaning: to give out news in a public way
Example: The salon will announce the winner of the free hair cut on their Facebook page at noon.

Word: Announcement
Meaning: a public statement or report that gives information to those listening or viewing
Example: During the family get together; the happy couple made the announcement that they were having a baby.

Word: Annoy
Meaning: to irritate or bother someone to the point of aggravation
Example: The buzzy fly continued to annoy the house guests until someone finally stood up and swatted the pest.

Word: Annoyance
Meaning: irritation; nuisance
Example: Bernie’s state of annoyance was aggravated by the non-stop pestering of his crazy neighbor.

Word: Annual
Meaning: happening once a year
Example: We worried that our state would impose water rationing because of how little annual rainfall we had received this year.

Word: Annuity
Meaning: an allotment of money paid from an insurance company either in a full payment or in installments usually for retirement purposes
Example: Due to a small pension from her job; Matilda considered buying an annuity at the Lawton Insurance Company so she could live freely during her retirement.

Word: Annul
Meaning: to officially make something invalid 
Example: After the actress tied the knot with a stranger in Mexico; she was persuaded by her manager to annul the marriage.

Word: Anodyne 
Meaning: something used to comfort or relieve pain
Example: The doctor promised to give me a strong anodyne to relieve the throbbing in my neck.

Word: Anomalous
Meaning: unordinary; unusual; or distinctly different from the norm
Example: The scientists at the weather station were extremely worried about the anomalous readings they were getting from their instruments; as they were far beyond the norm.

Word: Anomaly
Meaning: something unusual or unexpected
Example: In order to find the anomaly; scientists had to repeat the experiment over a hundred times.

Word: Anomie
Meaning: social instability caused by erosion of standards and values 
Example: Carl claims that the children of gangsters are prone to anomie because they were never raised with a sense of right and wrong.

Word: Anon
Meaning: in a short time; soon
Example: The game will begin anon so hurry up and get here!

Word: Anonymity
Meaning: the condition of having one’s identity unknown
Example: For anonymity; the famous actress wore dark glasses and a baseball cap while walking in the park.

Word: Anonymous
Meaning: not named
Example: The donor requested to remain anonymous so that others wouldn’t bother him for money.

Word: Answer
Meaning: to give a response
Example: The student raised his hand to answer the question; but the teacher called on someone else.

Word: Antagonism
Meaning: strong dislike
Example: After deciding to become a cheerleader; the teenage boy had to deal with the antagonism of his peers.

Word: Antagonist
Meaning: a challenger or foe
Example: Do you think the antagonist is going to kill the hero at the end of the movie?

Word: Antagonistic
Meaning: showing or feeling aggression or hostility towards something
Example: My step-brother has always been very antagonistic towards me; never sharing his things or spending any time with me if he can help it.

Word: Antagonize
Meaning: to trigger hostility or anger
Example: If you antagonize the dog; he will bite you.

Word: Ante
Meaning: to make an investment in money before knowing one’s chances 
Example: Every player is required to place an ante of the chosen amount into the center of table when playing poker.

Word: Antebellum 
Meaning: during the time before the American Civil War
Example: American slaves once lived and worked on this large antebellum farm.

Word: Antecedent
Meaning: something that came before something else and may have influenced or caused it
Example: Can you identify the antecedent that led to Jane’s emotional breakdown?

Word: Antedate
Meaning: to occur before something else
Example:  In general; sex will normally antedate a pregnancy.

Word: Antediluvian
Meaning: greatly out of date
Example: My daughter often tells me I wear antediluvian clothes that are way out of style.

Word: Antemeridian
Meaning: in the morning or before noon
Example: The antemeridian brunch was held before noon so that more people could attend.

Word: Anterior
Meaning: nearer the front
Example: Marc’s anterior teeth are yellow; although his molars are pearly white.

Word: Anteroom
Meaning: a small waiting area that leads into a bigger room
Example: The principal makes the students wait in his anteroom before he calls them into his office.

Word: Anthem
Meaning: a song that is said to represent the masses; whether it be cultural or social
Example: Lady Gaga’s “Born This Way” became an anthem for the LGBT community.

Word: Anthology
Meaning: a collection of writings
Example: The band’s anthology was set to release in a few days.

Word: Anthropoid
Meaning: having characteristics of a human being; usually in terms of shape or appearance
Example: While visiting the zoo; we watched a monkey peal a banana in such an anthropoid way.

Word: Anthropologist
Meaning: an individual who studies the development of human beings
Example: As an anthropologist; Sara spends her days examining the evolution of human beings.

Word: Anthropology
Meaning: the study of the origin of mankind
Example: By examining past societies; those learned in anthropology believe they can solve world issues today.

Word: Anthropomorphic
Meaning: having attributes of humans
Example: The boy’s favorite cartoon stars an anthropomorphic cat who talks and walks like a person.

Word: Anthropomorphism
Meaning: giving human traits to objects and living creatures that are not human
Example: The author uses anthropomorphism to give human personalities to her animal characters.

Word: Anti-Semitism 
Meaning: hostility towards Jewish people because of their religion and/or ethnicity
Example: When Jewish families began to move into the exclusive neighborhood; some of them were met with anti-semitism from racist neighbors.

Word: Anti
Meaning: opposed to or against
Example: The world is almost entirely anti-imperialism these days; condemning any country that would try to expand its own borders through conquest.

Word: Antibiotic
Meaning: any substance that can destroy or inhibit the growth of bacteria and similar microorganisms
Example: Her doctor said that she should take an antibiotic because it will help her fight the bacterial infection that is causing her strep throat.

Word: Antibody
Meaning: a blood protein your body creates to fight disease
Example: Finding the right antibody to fight the contagion is critical and can determine between life and death.

Word: Anticipate 
Meaning: ready for something to occur 
Example: Since we anticipate each person will eat at least two hot dogs at the barbecue; we have purchased fifty hot dogs for our twenty-five guests.

Word: Anticipation
Meaning: the condition of being excited about something that is going to occur
Example: In anticipation of the baby’s arrival; we have prepared the nursery.

Word: Anticipatory
Meaning: happening or performed in anticipation of something
Example: The soldiers took anticipatory defensive positions; preparing for the wave of attackers that would no doubt assault their position within the hour.

Word: Anticlimactic
Meaning: lacking climax; disappointing or ironically insignificant following of impressive foreshadowing
Example: Although the child anticipated that the gift would bring him endless enjoyment; it quickly turned into an anticlimactic experience.

Word: Anticlimax
Meaning: a shift from an exciting event to a disappointing event
Example: As the story wrapped up; it became apparent that Sonny’s break-up with his girlfriend would be the anticlimax.

Word: Antics
Meaning: silly or outrageous conduct
Example: The students’ disruptive antics caused the speaker to stop talking.

Word: Antidote
Meaning: a substance to counteract a poison
Example: Because he was bit by a snake; they had to give him the antidote so he would survive.

Word: Antigen
Meaning: a toxin or foreign substance that causes the body to produce antibodies
Example: After many tests were conducted; it was discovered that he carried the antigen for a genetic disorder.

Word: Antinomy
Meaning: an apparent contradiction between valid conclusions
Example: The Kansas born man spoke antinomy when he stated that all Americans are liars.

Word: Antipathy
Meaning: a feeling of dislike
Example: The source of my antipathy is my ex-husband’s new wife!

Word: Antipodes
Meaning: a nickname for Australia and New Zealand
Example: Far from the antipodes; the couple was homesick for both Australia and New Zealand.

Word: Antiquated
Meaning: dated; from the past
Example: Why would such a young woman wear antiquated dresses that make her look like an old lady?

Word: Antique
Meaning: an old piece of furniture; household item; or other similar item
Example: After researching the antique car; I became aware that it was over 100 years old and came directly off of Ford’s assembly line.

Word: Antiquity
Meaning: an out of date period
Example: While many females got married in their teens in antiquity; today women tend to marry in their later years.

Word: Antiseptic
Meaning: very clean and free of disease-causing organisms
Example: While cleaning with an antiseptic spray; I realized my friend would find it impossible to say anything negative at our playdate about any germs being in the house.

Word: Antisocial
Meaning: unwilling or unable to associate normally with other people
Example: People say that I am antisocial because I don’t talk that much.

Word: Antithesis
Meaning: the total opposite of an object or person
Example: In the movie; Robert’s character of an abusive husband is the antithesis of the caring spouse the actor really is.

Word: Antithetical 
Meaning: in direct contrast to an idea; in opposition of 
Example: The bill has not passed parliament because the conservative party is antithetical to the liberal party’s proposal.

Word: Antitrust
Meaning: a law against trusts and monopolies; designed to promote competition in business
Example: Antitrust laws are in place to prevent companies from having a monopoly on any good or service.

Word: Antonym
Meaning: a word that means the opposite of another word in the same language
Example: One antonym pair we are very used to in driving is ‘go’ and ‘stop;’ for obvious reasons.

Word: Anxiety
Meaning: an uncomfortable feeling of worry or nervousness
Example: Because she was suffering from anxiety; her therapist recommended taking some medication to help.

Word: Anxious
Meaning: worried or concerned
Example: Sylvia was anxious to finish her speech since getting in front of a large crowd of people made her tremble.

Word: Anyway
Meaning: anyhow; nevertheless
Example: I figured that he mall would be very busy on Saturday afternoon; but I decided to go anyway.

Word: Apart
Meaning: to be separated by a typically considerable distance
Example: The two lovers were struggling with the rules of their people that kept them apart; and they decided to flee the stratifications of their home.

Word: Apartheid
Meaning: discriminatory policy of racial separation used by South Africa
Example: Apartheid was discrimination against Africans based on skin color or ethnicity.

Word: Apathetic
Meaning: having little or no interest or concern
Example: The employee’s apathetic attitude was apparent in the rude way he greeted customers.

Word: Apathy
Meaning: a feeling of having no interest in or enthusiasm
Example: While some of the group’s members could not stop talking during the budget discussion; other members were frozen with apathy and did not engage in the conversation.

Word: Apathy
Meaning: a feeling of having no interest in or enthusiasm about anything
Example: The serial killer’s lack of apathy left even the judge speechless.

Word: Aperture
Meaning: a gap such as a hole or cavity
Example: The missile left a gigantic aperture in the wall of the terrorist’s hideout.

Word: Apex
Meaning: the greatest or topmost position
Example: At the apex of our country sits the president of our nation.

Word: Aphorism
Meaning: a brief and witty saying
Example: While Ted’s aphorism was short and funny; it was enough to make us briefly forget our father was having life-saving surgery.

Word: Aphotic
Meaning: a region of water that is so deep that it does not receive sunlight
Example: In the aphotic section of the ocean; many sea creatures have the ability to glow in the pitch black depths.

Word: Aphrodisiac
Meaning: something that produces or enhances desire of a sexual nature
Example: My husband hoped the aphrodisiac would stimulate his sexual desires.

Word: Apiary
Meaning: a place where bees and hives are kept 
Example: Although he spent many hours daily in the apiary; he was seldom stung by a bee.

Word: Apical
Meaning: top; important; best; highest
Example: When he was elected president; it was an apical point in his life.

Word: Aplomb
Meaning: confidence and skill shown; especially in a difficult situation; keeping your cool
Example: Because the negotiator handled the hostage situation with aplomb; the kidnapper released everyone without harm.

Word: Apocalypse
Meaning: a huge catastrophe that causes devastating destruction and loss
Example: Many religious groups believe an apocalypse will one day terminate the lives of all sinners.

Word: Apocryphal
Meaning: well-known but probably not true
Example: Scientists claim the apocryphal story about creation is not true.

Word: Apodictic
Meaning: unquestionably true or certain
Example: After spending 16 years teaching English; I had an apodictic assurance that I could pass an adolescent literature class.

Word: Apogee
Meaning: the highest point
Example: The apogee of my happiness was when I married the love of my life.

Word: Apologetic
Meaning: remorseful; sorry for committing a wrong
Example: Though she pretended to be apologetic; Lesley wasn’t really sorry for the things she had done wrong.

Word: Apologize
Meaning: to express regret for one’s actions; to say that you are sorry
Example: The woman’s stubborn boyfriend never likes to apologize; even when he knows he was wrong.

Word: Apology
Meaning: an expression of regret; remorse 
Example: The Congressman has made mistakes; as he himself acknowledged during a televised apology last weekend.

Word: Apoplectic
Meaning: incredibly angry
Example: The victim’s family was apoplectic when the case against their son’s killer was dismissed.

Word: Apoplexy
Meaning: the inability to speak or perform as a result of an intense emotion or serious medical condition
Example: During a bout of apoplexy caused by anger; Jim couldn’t respond to the accusations made against his wife.

Word: Apostasy
Meaning: the act of renouncing one’s religious beliefs
Example: After Sue underwent her apostasy; she declared herself an atheist and never returned to church.

Word: Apostate
Meaning: an individual who has rejected his faith or religious convictions
Example: When John challenged his church’s views; the leaders began to see him as an apostate.

Word: Apothecary
Meaning: a person who makes and provides/sells drugs and/or medicines
Example: When she realized that she was sick; the young woman sought the assistance of the local apothecary.

Word: Apothegm
Meaning: a short; witty; instructive saying
Example: """Don’t cry over spilled milk"" is an apothegm which has become worn from overuse; but which will forever remain true and relevant.apothegm which has become worn from overuse; but which will forever remain true and relevant.';3;1;3);""> 🔊"

Word: Apotheosis
Meaning: perfect example of something or the best point in one's life or job
Example: I consider the apotheosis of my career to be when I received CEO of the company.

Word: Appalled
Meaning: struck with horror
Example: When the stranger approached us and pulled down his pants; we were appalled.

Word: Appalling
Meaning: very bad
Example: The guru’s lie was appalling to those who followed his teachings.

Word: Apparatus
Meaning: the tools; equipment; and machinery you use for particular purposes
Example: The firefighter donned a breathing apparatus before entering the blaze; to search for people trapped in the inferno.

Word: Apparel
Meaning: clothing
Example: Shirley needs learn about different kinds of apparel that are fitting for various social settings; so that she does not stand out like a sore thumb.

Word: Apparent
Meaning: clearly visible or understood; obvious
Example: After the jury listened to the witness talk about the murder; it became apparent that he had never witnessed it.

Word: Apparition
Meaning: a ghostly appearing figure
Example: Casper the Friendly Ghost is a cartoon apparition that even little kids can be comfortable with.

Word: Appeal
Meaning: to make a request for
Example: I have made an appeal to my parents to reduce the length of time I am grounded; but so far I have had no success in convincing them of that.

Word: Appealing
Meaning: tempting; alluring
Example: After a week without food; even insects were appealing to the starving sailor.

Word: Appear
Meaning: to become visible; to come into sight
Example: The magician made the rabbit appear out of nowhere; surprising the audience who were shocked to see it hop out of the hat.

Word: Appearance
Meaning: what something looks like
Example: Having just drove through a bunch of mud on his ATV; Mark’s appearance was little more than wet brown dirt on every inch of his face.

Word: Appease
Meaning: to make (someone) pleased or less angry by giving or saying something desired
Example: When I reported the cashier’s poor customer service; the manager tried to appease me with the offer of a free pizza.

Word: Appeasement
Meaning: to calm or persuade into an agreement usually in the angry party’s favor
Example: The appeasement of the angry mob was only possible when the governor spoke to their leader and came to an agreement.

Word: Appellation
Meaning: a term or title by which a person or thing is identified
Example: Because there is no appellation on the product; consumers are confused about the brand's name.

Word: Append
Meaning: attach; affix
Example: The charm bracelet had acquired so many charms that Stacey had a hard time finding space to append her newest one.

Word: Appendage
Meaning: a limb or other extremity that stick outs from the upper or lower portion of a body
Example: Using a claw-like appendage; the videogame monster killed the soldiers.

Word: Appendix
Meaning: the last part of a book or essay where extra information pertaining to the topic is included; sometimes with a graphic aid
Example: “Your APA paper should contain an appendix located after the works cited page of your paper;” said the professor to his students.

Word: Appertain 
Meaning: to be linked to or associated with
Example:  The actress will probably ignore media questions that don’t appertain to her new film.

Word: Appetence
Meaning: the state or action of desiring or craving
Example: Watching how donuts were made gave Greg an appetence for a soft; warm; glazed donut.

Word: Appetite
Meaning: a strong desire for something
Example: Because I’m so hungry; I have a real appetite for just about anything edible at this point.

Word: Appetizing
Meaning: appealing or attractive; typically in reference to food
Example: The melted cheese of a grilled cheese sandwich is extremely appetizing when I am hungry.

Word: Applaud
Meaning: to congratulate by clapping
Example: Following the wonderful performance of the local opera company on opening night; the audience did applaud by standing up at the end and cheering.

Word: Applause
Meaning: the act of praise publicly expressed by the clapping of hands
Example: During the Olympics the crowd was instructed to hold their applause until the end of the gymnast’s performance.

Word: Appliance
Meaning: a piece of equipment designed to perform a domestic task
Example: The dishwasher is a staple appliance in American kitchens; and has been for many decades; alongside the sink.

Word: Applicable
Meaning: suitable for application; relevant
Example: The judge said that New Jersey law was not applicable in this case because the crime took place in Delaware and that the criminal had not driven over state lines.

Word: Applicant
Meaning: one who applies for something; one who makes a request
Example: The company has promised to see all applicants who meet the specification for the vacant job.

Word: Application
Meaning: an official permission to a higher figure for something
Example: Since I needed to travel to another county; I was required to fill out an application for a new passport six weeks in advance by completing the required form.

Word: Apply
Meaning: to smear or rub a substance on something else
Example: I need to apply sunscreen all over my pale skin before I go out in the sun.

Word: Appoint
Meaning: to assign a responsibility; job; or role to someone
Example: After the scandal broke; the CIA was quick to appoint a new director with no ties to the former director who was now heading to jail.

Word: Appointed
Meaning: to pick or choose for a task; duty; job or title position
Example: After Scalia’s death; the president appointed the replacement for the Supreme Court of the United States.

Word: Apportion 
Meaning: to distribute in a fair way
Example: At the center; we apportion afternoon snacks so that all children get at least one juice and one snack.

Word: Appose
Meaning: to place things next to or near another thing
Example: The artist chose to appose the two students beside one another so he could paint them at the same time.

Word: Apposite
Meaning: fitting for the situation or suited
Example: My daughter and I usually disagree about which clothing items are apposite for school.

Word: Apposition
Meaning: a grammatical relation between an adjective and the noun behind it
Example: In the movie title; “My Fair Lady”; my fair is in apposition to the word lady.

Word: Appraisal
Meaning: an opinion or estimated value
Example: Though my car was in good condition; the appraisal of my vehicle came back with a below trade-in value.

Word: Appraised
Meaning: to have had its worth evaluated
Example: The insurance company appraised the famous painting at ten million dollars.

Word: Appreciable
Meaning: adequately considered to be substantial or significant
Example: After providing her medical records; the young student’s appreciable impairment was taken seriously now from her teachers.

Word: Appreciate
Meaning: to understand the worth; value; or importance of something
Example: As an art dealer; the man can appreciate fine pieces and see their worth in a way that others can’t.

Word: Appreciative
Meaning: displaying or feeling gratitude
Example: My appreciative daughter thanked everyone who gave her a birthday present.

Word: Apprehend
Meaning: to catch a person for criminal reasons
Example: Hopefully the law enforcement agents will apprehend the killer before he harms anyone else.

Word: Apprehension
Meaning: capturing and arresting a lawless person
Example: Both the army and the police were involved in the apprehension of the terrorists.

Word: Apprehensive
Meaning: worried that something bad may happen; afraid
Example: With recent job cuts; Kate is apprehensive about losing her job.

Word: Apprentice
Meaning: trainee (beginner) especially in a skilled trade
Example: Before he became a professional; he worked as an apprentice in the industry.

Word: Apprenticeship
Meaning: job training that involves working for an expert to learn a particular trade
Example: James took a culinary apprenticeship to learn the skills necessary to become a chef.

Word: Apprise
Meaning: to report on the status of something
Example: The scouts went back to apprise their commanding officer of the enemy’s location.

Word: Approach
Meaning: so come near something
Example: The hunter tried to approach the deer quietly so he would not scare it away.

Word: Approachable
Meaning: easy to talk to
Example: Due to my approachable teacher; I felt comfortable asking her any question about physics without feeling dumb.

Word: Approbation
Meaning: to gain approval
Example: I need to write a powerful resume to gain approbation from an employor.

Word: Appropriate
Meaning: right or suited for a particular situation
Example: Her speech on retirement was appropriate for her middle-aged audience.

Word: Appropriation
Meaning: money set aside for a specific purpose
Example: Joy works at city hall where she gets to oversee the appropriation of funds to both the public school and the public library systems.

Word: Approve
Meaning: to officially accept something; considering it good or okay
Example: Before the bank will approve your loan; you must sign a note promising to repay the money with interest.

Word: Approximate
Meaning: close to the exact; estimated
Example: Because Jack did not want to place an exact figure on how much he was willing to spend; I asked him for an approximate ball park figure.

Word: Approximately
Meaning: close to; but not exactly
Example: The newborn baby weighed approximately 8 pounds; but I would need to look at his birth certificate to be certain.

Word: Appurtenant
Meaning: belonging
Example: Appurtenant to the property; the single oak stump was an eyesore to both the owners and the neighbors.

Word: Apropos
Meaning: fitting; at the right time
Example: Justine’s apropos comment fit in perfectly with our discussion.

Word: Apt
Meaning: likely to do something
Example: The apt student was on his way to claiming honor roll status.

Word: Aptitude
Meaning: the capability to do something well
Example: The aptitude test will identify your strongest areas in math.

Word: Aptly
Meaning: in a fitting way
Example: When my aunt labels my moody uncle as grumpy; she aptly refers to him.

Word: Aptness
Meaning: being suitable or right for something
Example: Michael’s long legs given him an aptness for being a good track athlete.

Word: Aquatic
Meaning: associated with water; often living in or taking place in water
Example: All aquatic activities will take place in the indoor pool.

Word: Aqueduct
Meaning: an artificial channel that is constructed to transport water from one location to another
Example: Once completed; the aqueduct will carry fresh water into the mainland.

Word: Aqueous
Meaning: associated with water
Example: The punch is an aqueous solution composed of water and fruit juice.

Word: Aquifer
Meaning: a rock deposit that bears water and is under the ground 
Example: Several people became ill after drinking water from the aquifer located under the chemical plant.

Word: Arabesque
Meaning: a graceful; Arabian design usually seen in metal; ceramic; or stone that resembles vines and leaves
Example: Arabesque gates with curving iron doors guarded the entrance into the garden.

Word: Arable
Meaning: adequate for cultivating
Example: The soil in the front yard is arable and perfect for planting a rose garden.

Word: Arbiter
Meaning: one who can settle a disagreement between parties
Example: An arbiter will help the divorcing couple come to terms on a settlement.

Word: Arbitrage
Meaning: a method of buying something for one price and then immediately selling it for another price somewhere else
Example: The broker decided to use arbitrage techniques to buy foreign stocks at a discount and quickly unload them in the US.

Word: Arbitrary
Meaning: not done for any particular reason; chosen or done at random
Example: In spite of the cold weather; we made an arbitrary trip to the beach.

Word: Arbitrate
Meaning: to settle an argument between two people or groups after hearing the opinions and ideas of both
Example: Often; I am called upon to arbitrate disagreements between my two best friends.

Word: Arboreal 
Meaning: associated with trees
Example: It is easy for the deer to hide in the fallen leaves of its arboreal habitat.

Word: Arcane
Meaning: understood by only a few; obscure
Example: Because it is no longer taught in schools; people are concerned that cursive writing will become arcane.

Word: Arch
Meaning: "a semi-circle shape; like an inverted ""U"""
Example: Write the letter U upside down to best visualize an arch.

Word: Archaeologist 
Meaning: one who studies ancient civilizations by examining artifacts
Example: An archaeologist studies artifacts to learn about past societies.

Word: Archaeology
Meaning: the study of the past by excavation and analysis of its material remains
Example: Thanks to the efforts of archaeology; excavators were able to discovered a new species of dinosaur.

Word: Archaic
Meaning: old and no longer useful
Example: Because my archaic computer is no longer useful to me; I am giving it away for free.

Word: Archenemy
Meaning: a main enemy that is extremely opposed to someone or something
Example: Glaring at this archenemy; the runner was determined to beat him in the race.

Word: Archetype
Meaning: an ideal example that people often attempt to duplicate
Example: The film that won the best picture award should be considered the archetype of all future movies.

Word: Archipelago
Meaning: a group of islands
Example: After island-hopping in the Aegean Sea; the tourists slept for a couple days due to previous excessive boating and walking to the different islands on the archipelago.

Word: Architecture
Meaning: the science of designing and constructing
Example: The architecture of the boat was supposed to make the vessel unsinkable.

Word: Archive
Meaning: a collection of historical documents or records providing information about a place; institution; or group of people
Example: The archive was full of photographs; letters; and historical documents from WWI.

Word: Archly
Meaning: cunningly or slyly
Example: The thief archly planned the robbery.

Word: Ardent
Meaning: feeling great passion; or felt very passionately
Example: When the rock star checks his mail; he almost always finds one or two bizarre gifts from some of his ardent fans.

Word: Ardor
Meaning: great warmth of feeling; passion
Example: While Jane enjoyed spending time with John; she did not return the ardor he felt for her.

Word: Arduous
Meaning: demanding great effort or labor; difficult
Example: Last semester was a piece of cake; but taking seven classes along with an internship this semester is going to be arduous!

Word: Area
Meaning: a particular geographic region
Example: The Everglades are an area of swamp in southern Florida.

Word: Argot
Meaning: a unique language used by certain groups or people with a particular occupation
Example: The old woman could not understand the argot her granddaughter used to communicate with her friends.

Word: Arguably
Meaning: possibly or probably
Example: Ms. Ray believed that her chocolate cake would arguably win the top prize at Florida’s Cake Contest.

Word: Argue
Meaning: to give reasons for your support or condemnation of certain ideals; typically in an aggressive manner
Example: If you wish to argue for an ideal that you believe in; you are better off relying on logic than emotion.

Word: Argument
Meaning: a discussion where both sides explain their contrasting viewpoints usually with an angry tone
Example: Everyone in the apartment complex could hear the argument between the couple due to their loud voices and the thin walls.

Word: Argumentative
Meaning: predisposed to debating; disagreeing; or expressing controversial opinions or beliefs
Example: An argumentative student will often disagree with the teacher just for the sake of doing so rather than having a good reason.

Word: Argyle
Meaning: a pattern that features a series of diamonds and a solid colored background that was originally modeled from Scottish tartan
Example: The doting grandfather made a habit of wearing argyle vests because his granddaughter loved to trace the diamond patterns and nuzzle into the wool.

Word: Arid
Meaning: incredibly dry; lacking water 
Example: The crops will not grow in the arid ground because the soil is too dry.

Word: Aridity
Meaning: long term lack of rainfall or moisture
Example: The aridity of the soil was not ideal for planting.

Word: Arise
Meaning: to get up from a seated or laying position
Example: Once the small children saw the sun peak through their windows; they would arise and go downstairs on Christmas day.

Word: Aristocracy
Meaning: a group of people who are viewed as being better than others; usually because of a title or status in society
Example: The richest people in our town are considered to be the town aristocracy.

Word: Aristocratic
Meaning: relating to nobility or upper class
Example: The man’s aristocratic background caused him to crave fine dining and lavish parties.

Word: Armada
Meaning: a fleet of warships
Example: During the war a country’s navy sent its armada to attack its enemy.

Word: Armament
Meaning: military weapons or equipment
Example: The armament technician’s job is to make sure that all of the troop’s weapons are in working order.

Word: Armistice
Meaning: a break from fighting which gives two warring factions time to negotiate peace
Example: The accidental firing of the missile broke the armistice and destroyed the chance of peace between the two nations.

Word: Armor
Meaning: metal coverings that are worn to protect one’s body; especially during battle
Example: The soldiers dressed their bodies in armor and prepared to face their enemies on the battlefield.

Word: Aroma
Meaning: a distinctive; typically pleasant smell
Example: A pleasant aroma rose from Janet’s oven; as her apple pie neared completion.

Word: Aromatic
Meaning: fragrant or strong-smelling
Example: The aromatic scent of grandma’s spaghetti sauce wafted through the house.

Word: Arose
Meaning: to start to exist or occur
Example: A disagreement arose during the game; and the referee had to clear the field to end the fight.

Word: Around
Meaning: nearby; In the area
Example: There is supposed to be a park around the corner; but we haven’t been able to find it.

Word: Arouse
Meaning: to stimulate or provoke a reaction or response
Example: After Sandy began asking her friends to lie about her whereabouts on the night of the crime; she began to arouse suspicion from the detective.

Word: Arraign
Meaning: to charge someone in a court of law
Example: His lawyer was not present when the suspect was set to arraign.

Word: Arraignment
Meaning: to take before a judge based on charges brought against the person
Example: The community was relieved when the gang members were arrested and brought in for an arraignment.

Word: Arrange
Meaning: to plan or set up
Example: The musician tried to arrange a meeting at the record label; but no one would agree to meet with him.

Word: Arrangement
Meaning: how something is positioned or displayed
Example: Anna worked on the arrangement of the flowers; positioning each rose in a specific way.

Word: Arrant
Meaning: "complete; total; or utter (example: ""arrant nonsense"")"
Example: If you allow your son to participate in such arrant nonsense with his friends; he’s going to end up either hurt or in a juvenile detention center.

Word: Array
Meaning: a large collection of things or people
Example: The store offers an array of neckties for sale; of every color; stripe and texture.

Word: Arrears 
Meaning: a debt that is overdue; unpaid
Example: Because Jill’s credit card payment has been in arrears for three months; the card issuer is suspending her account.

Word: Arrest
Meaning: to seize someone and take them into legal custody
Example: The police officer decided not to arrest the woman even though he could have taken her to jail.

Word: Arresting
Meaning: fascinating; striking in an eye-catching way
Example: The eye-catching painting was visually arresting to all of the art gallery visitors.

Word: Arrhythmic
Meaning: having an irregular beat or pace
Example: After diagnosing the patient with an arrhythmic heartbeat; the doctor knew he needed to prescribe medication to get the beat back into a steady rhythm.

Word: Arrival
Meaning: the act of reaching the place to which you were traveling
Example: Because of the blizzard weather; my arrival to New York will be delayed.

Word: Arrogance
Meaning: a rude and insulting way to act that comes from thinking you are better and more important than other people
Example: The sheer arrogance of Hitler to think that he could dominate the world was shattered when he assassinated himself in his bunker.

Word: Arrogant
Meaning: one who rudely acts as though he is better than other people
Example: The arrogant young man quickly discounted his friends' suggestions.

Word: Arrogate
Meaning: to seize without having the right to do so
Example: The gang is trying to arrogate the public park and turn it into their private meeting space.

Word: Arsenal
Meaning: a stock of weapons
Example: When they arrested the suspect; he had an arsenal of firearms in his possession.

Word: Arsenic
Meaning: a very harmful substance that kills people and animals that ingest it
Example: The husband was accused of sprinkling arsenic on his wife’s food in an effort to kill her.

Word: Arson
Meaning: illegally setting something on fire
Example: Fire investigators suspected arson when they couldn’t find an electrical source for the fire.

Word: Artful
Meaning: showing creativity or skill
Example: The photographer’s artful shot showed a new side of the great wall.

Word: Arthritis
Meaning: inflammation and stiffness in the joints
Example: Timothy’s doctor explained that the sharp pains in his joints were caused by arthritis.

Word: Article
Meaning: a story or report that you can read in a newspaper; journal; or online
Example: I read an article in the newspaper about the effect of social networking sites on children.

Word: Articles of Confederation
Meaning: the original constitution of the U.S. that was replaced by the current constitution in 1781
Example: When the United States of America was first formed; our governing document was known as the Articles of Confederation.

Word: Articulate
Meaning: expressing oneself clearly
Example: A polished speaker; Jenna was able to articulate her points during any discussion.

Word: Artifact
Meaning: a handmade object that is often found in some type of archaeological dig 
Example: The artifact was discovered near the site of the ancient burial ground.

Word: Artifice
Meaning: a move made to obtain an advantage or trick someone
Example: The company’s artifice centers on lowering their prices to the point that no other company can compete.

Word: Artificial
Meaning: man made and/or unnatural
Example: The health-conscious mother banned anything with artificial flavors from the house.

Word: Artillery
Meaning: long range explosive bombardment weapons; such as cannons or mortars
Example: During World War Two; battleships served as artillery for many of the island invasions the US underwent against Japan.

Word: Artisan
Meaning: skilled craft worker who makes or creates things by hand
Example: The artisan cheesemakers specialized in making cheeses on their small dairy farm.

Word: Artistic
Meaning: having or revealing creative skill
Example: Ways to be artistic include writing; painting; drawing; singing; playing an instrument; and doing arts and crafts.

Word: As Timid as a Mouse
Meaning: describes someone that is easily frightened or skittish as a mouse
Example: Charlotte has always been someone that was as timid as a mouse; frightened by loud noises; large people; and just about anything in general.

Word: Ascend
Meaning: to travel in an upward direction
Example: Sam was able to ascend the corporate ladder because of his relationships with powerful executives.

Word: Ascendancy
Meaning: a situation of power from which an individual can influence ordirect other individuals
Example: Jim is an arrogant man who believes he has an ascendancy that allows him to order his wife around like a slave.

Word: Ascendant
Meaning: rising in power; status; or influence
Example: The king desperately looked for a way to fend off the ascendant regime rising to power.

Word: Ascension
Meaning: a rise in status or physical position
Example: The plane’s ascension took it from the landing strip far into the skies above the airport it called home for a few hours.

Word: Ascent
Meaning: a path that leads upward
Example: My legs were tired after I took the ascent to the cabin on the ridge.

Word: Ascertain
Meaning: learn or discover with certainty; determine
Example: Detective Jimmy was able to quickly ascertain the suspect was not being honest with him.

Word: Ascetic
Meaning: leading a life of self-discipline and self-denial; usually for spiritual reasons
Example: Jacob chose to live an ascetic life because of his strict religious beliefs.

Word: Ascribe
Meaning: attribute a cause or characteristic
Example: While you can sometimes ascribe these symptoms to allergies; I’m pretty sure you have a full-fledged cold.

Word: Aseptic
Meaning: free from living germs that cause disease
Example: After undergoing extensive surgery; Karen’s bloodstream became aseptic which would label her as healthy.

Word: Ashamed
Meaning: embarrassed because of one’s own actions
Example: Ashamed of the lies she told her husband; the cheating wife hung her head in shame.

Word: Ashore
Meaning: the land along the edge of a large body of water
Example: The passengers went ashore once the cruise line made their scheduled stop in Florida.

Word: Aside
Meaning: out of the way; to the side
Example: Placing all problems aside; Lila decided to give her boyfriend a second chance.

Word: Asinine
Meaning: very stupid or foolish
Example: How asinine of you to pay for a television in pennies!

Word: Askance
Meaning: with doubt or suspicion
Example: The wealthy man looked askance as the gang members approached him.

Word: Askew
Meaning: tilted to one side; in a crooked position
Example: I’ve tried straightening out the poster three times; but it still looks askew.

Word: Aspect
Meaning: a specific part of something
Example: The critic’s review was single-minded and focused only on one aspect of the film.

Word: Aspects
Meaning: parts of something
Example: As we toured the home; I mentioned that the aspects of house were not my style.

Word: Asperity
Meaning: harsh manner or tone of voice
Example: When I was a teenager; my father used asperity when he spoke with all my dates in hopes of scaring them away.

Word: Aspersion
Meaning: a false charge meant to harm someone’s reputation
Example: Jack’s political rival cast an aspersion against him right before the election.

Word: Asphyxiate
Meaning: to stop the flow of air to a person’s lungs by obstructing their breathing pathway
Example: Detective Jones realized the killer did asphyxiate the victim by wrapping a belt around her throat and pulling it as tight as possible.

Word: Asphyxiation
Meaning: the act of restricting oxygen to the brain in someone or something
Example: Due to the red marks around her neck and her pale blue skin; the medical examiner determined that the woman died of asphyxiation.

Word: Aspirant
Meaning: a person or group that strives to achieve something; take on a certain career; or follow a particular path
Example: Though she didn’t possess much natural talent; the aspirant practice dancing every single day in hopes that she would be good enough to become a professional dancer.

Word: Aspirate
Meaning: a medical term that means to draw in something by suction
Example: During the science experiment; students tried to aspirate some of the excess liquid from the bowl using a syringe.

Word: Aspiration
Meaning: a dream of accomplishing something
Example: My husband and I share the aspiration of having a marriage that lasts a lifetime.

Word: Aspire
Meaning: to hope or dream
Example: Even though he claims that he doesn’t aspire to greatness; I have never seen anyone work the media the way that he does.

Word: Assail
Meaning: to attack violently
Example: If anyone ever talks negatively about Alex’s father; his response is to assail the person with insults.

Word: Assailant
Meaning:  an individual who attacks another individual
Example: I was able to give the police a detailed description of the assailant who attacked me in the parking lot.

Word: Assassinate
Meaning: to murder a famous or otherwise important person with a surprise attack
Example: The murder only spent a few hours planning the killing; but was able to assassinate the politician right outside his home.

Word: Assault
Meaning: a physical attack
Example: An assault of the police officer left him bloody and battered.

Word: Assay
Meaning: a test or assessment on something to determine what it contains
Example: The laboratory conducted an assay to quantitatively measure the presence of ore in the composition.

Word: Assemblage
Meaning: an assembly or collection
Example: An assemblage of rust-colored antiques lined the tables of the thrift store.

Word: Assemble
Meaning: to put together
Example: The chef needed to assemble the ingredients for the meal.

Word: Assembly
Meaning: construction
Example: Toys R Us hires workers whose sole work task is assembly of bikes and other buildable toys.

Word: Assent
Meaning: to agree to something especially after thoughtful consideration
Example: For a while; it seemed as if Karen was not going to assent to Jim’s marriage proposal.

Word: Assert
Meaning: to express an opinion or fact in a confident manner
Example: The lawyer will assert his client’s innocence despite the overwhelming evidence against him.

Word: Assertion
Meaning: a bold declaration without proof
Example: The lawyer’s assertion will have us believe her client was not in the state at the time of the murder.

Word: Assertive
Meaning: boldly self-assured; confident without being aggressive
Example: The flight attendant became assertive when confronting the man who took his seat belt off during takeoff.

Word: Assess
Meaning: to judge or evaluate the state or value of something
Example: The field test will assess the police candidate’s ability to perform under stress.

Word: Assessment
Meaning: the process of making a judgement or evaluation about someone or something
Example: The assessment of my car damage was that it was totaled from the accident.

Word: Asset
Meaning: an individual; quality; or thing that is considered valuable
Example: Jane’s ’67 Mustang is her favorite asset.

Word: Asseverate
Meaning: to state in a definite manner
Example: The teacher could not believe the class mischief-maker had the nerve to asseverate a zombie stole his homework.

Word:  Assiduity 
Meaning: with strong focus and determination
Example: Because Bill knew he had to pass all his classes to graduate; he studied for his final exams with assiduity.

Word: Assiduous
Meaning: showing hard work and care that is brought about by attention to detail
Example: That was very assiduous of you to finish those financial reports weeks ahead of schedule.

Word: Assign
Meaning: to designate or set apart something for some purpose 
Example: The store managers will assign daily duties to the seasonal employees.

Word: Assignation
Meaning: an appointment or date to meet someone in secret; typically between lovers
Example: I had an assignation with my girlfriend yesterday; the two of us sneaking out into town so our parents wouldn’t know what we were doing.

Word: Assignment
Meaning: a particular task or duty that one is expected to complete
Example: On assignment for the Washington Post; the reporter combed the city in search of information.

Word: Assimilate
Meaning: to learn something so that it is fully understood and can be used
Example: Because I am not good with math; I find it difficult to assimilate most of the geometry formulas.

Word: Assist
Meaning: a helpful action or act of giving 
Example: I’m always willing to assist the elderly across the street when I see they’re struggling.

Word: Assistance
Meaning: help; aid
Example: The doctor called for assistance and the nurse came running.

Word: Assistant
Meaning: a worker who helps in a particular field for task
Example: Each library assistant was given a specific section of the library to put away books.

Word: Assisted
Meaning: helped; aided
Example: The kindergarten teacher assisted the children with tying their shoes and opening their milk cartons.

Word: Associate
Meaning: to connect things in one’s mind
Example: Even my two year old niece can associate the yellow arch with McDonald’s cheeseburgers.

Word: Association
Meaning: a group of people organized for a particular purpose or mission
Example: The association was created to help struggling veterans find housing and work.

Word: Associative
Meaning: having a connection between two things
Example: Research studies have shown time and time again that there is an associative connection between smoking and cancer.

Word: Assonance
Meaning: the duplication of similar or identical vowel sounds in sentences; phrases; or words
Example: If you find yourself repeating vowel vibrations in your poems; you’re probably making use of assonance in your rhymes.

Word: Assortment
Meaning: a diverse collection of things or people
Example: As she ventured into the closet; the maid was amazed by the assortment of shoes that lined the shelves.

Word: Assuage
Meaning: to provide relief; causing to feel better
Example: In an effort to assuage angry customers; the store issued everyone a full refund.

Word: Assuage
Meaning: to relieve or ease unpleasant feelings
Example: Darren tried to assuage his wife’s fear of flying by buying her a drink and holding her hand during takeoff.

Word: Assume
Meaning: to suppose to be true; especially without proof
Example: If I saw a man dressed all in black; holding a gun; and walking toward me; I would assume that the man is really a dangerous guy and I would run away from him.

Word: Assumption
Meaning: the act of assuming; or taking to or upon one's self; the act of taking up or adopting
Example: When the young woman became engaged; the assumption of wedding planner was taken on by the bride’s mother.

Word: Assurance
Meaning: a promise that relieves doubt
Example: In his address; the president will provide the public with an assurance the economy is slowly improving.

Word: Assure
Meaning: to promise or guarantee
Example: Unions are able to assure workers certain protections and benefits not guaranteed in nonunion states.

Word: Assured
Meaning: guaranteed; promised
Example: The dog groomer assured the dog’s owner that she would be satisfied with the pet’s haircut.

Word: Asterisk
Meaning: a print symbol used for numerous purposes including highlighting something or signaling a note is included at the end of a page 
Example: As Tim studied his notecards; he put an asterisk beside any information he felt he needed to revisit.

Word: Asteroid
Meaning: a rocky object that is smaller than a planet that most often orbits a star
Example: Believing that an asteroid would one day strike the Earth; the citizens decided to live on Mars.

Word: Asthenosphere
Meaning: the portion of the mantle of the Earth that rests under the lithosphere and is comprised of rocks that can be altered in shape
Example: The asthenosphere is an underlying layer of the Earth positioned beneath the lithosphere.

Word: Astir
Meaning: in motion
Example: By dawn of Christmas Day; the excited children were already astir.

Word: Astonish
Meaning: to trigger surprise or wonder
Example: Hopefully the magic show will astonish our guests and leave them amazed.

Word: Astonished
Meaning: greatly surprised or amazed
Example: After weeks of studying the Civil War; Kevin was astonished with his below average grade on his history test.

Word: Astonishing
Meaning: causing amazement
Example: The magic show was an astonishing display of illusions and wonder.

Word: Astonishment 
Meaning: the feeling of being greatly shocked or surprised
Example: The homeless man looked at me in astonishment when I gave him the bag of money.

Word: Astound
Meaning: to overpower with amazement
Example: The taste of the wonderful dessert is sure to astound anyone who likes chocolate.

Word: Astral
Meaning: related to the stars
Example: A telescope is being used to look at stars and other astral objects in the sky.

Word: Astray
Meaning: not on the desired path
Example: My partying friends tried to lead me astray from my studies.

Word: Astride
Meaning: with ones legs on either side of 
Example: An old portrait of Molly shows her sitting astride a horse.

Word: Astringent
Meaning: acidic
Example: The sauce was way too astringent for my taste; as I dislike bitter flavors.

Word: Astrology
Meaning: the study of the movements and positions of the planets and stars and how they might affect our lives
Example: Because she followed astrology; she read her horoscope each day.

Word: Astronomy 
Meaning: the methodical review of planets; stars; and other celestial bodies
Example: Because Tim was fascinated with astronomy; he asked his parents to buy him a telescope.

Word: Astute
Meaning: marked by practical hardheaded intelligence
Example: The astute businessman went from rags to riches with one great idea.

Word: Asunder
Meaning: separate into distinct parts
Example: When I learned my husband had been cheating on me; I felt as though my world had been blown asunder.

Word: Asylum
Meaning: place of safety
Example: Clara’s lifelong dream is to start a program that grants asylum to persecuted citizens from other countries.

Word: Asymmetrical
Meaning: having two uneven or crooked sides
Example: I have asymmetrical eyes; with one eye bigger and lower than the other.

Word: Asymptomatic
Meaning: displaying no signs or symptoms of illness
Example:  Although the doctor says I have a heart condition; I’m currently asymptomatic and feel fine.

Word: Asynchronous
Meaning: not happening or occurring at the same time
Example: The online course was asynchronous; allowing students to learn at their own pace.

Word:  Atavistic
Meaning: suggesting the reappearance of traits or characteristics of an ancestor or primitive object
Example: Not surprisingly; Jake was an atavistic alcoholic like his father.

Word: Atheism
Meaning: a lack of belief in the existence of a God or gods
Example: The man’s atheism was a surprise to his family members who were devout Catholics and wholeheartedly believed in God.

Word: Atheist 
Meaning: an individual who doesn’t believe in a higher power or god
Example: The atheist wrote a novel disproving the existence of a higher power.

Word: Athlete
Meaning: a person who is proficient in sports and other forms of physical exercise
Example: The ballet dancer raged when people scoffed and said that she wasn't an athlete because she spent as many hours training as NFL players.

Word: Athwart 
Meaning: diagonally; crossways
Example: Because the boy thinks it’s cool to wear his hat athwart on his head; he often wears his cap sideways.

Word: Atlas
Meaning: a book of maps
Example: Containing 40 maps; the atlas showed various boundaries between countries and states.

Word: Atmosphere
Meaning: the climate or mood in a certain place
Example: The atmosphere in the party was very festive.

Word: Atmospheric
Meaning: relating to the atmosphere (air that surrounds the Earth.)
Example: Global atmospheric levels of the gas continue to rise throughout the world’s air.

Word: Atom
Meaning: the smallest portion of an element that contains the chemical traits of the element
Example: Water consists of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom.

Word: Atomize
Meaning: to reduce something into small particles or a fine mist
Example: When scientists atomize a solution into tiny bits; an aerosol spray is created.

Word: Atone
Meaning: to reimburse for a wrongdoing
Example: To atone for racist actions in his youth; the billionaire established a scholarship fund for minority students attending his alma mater.

Word: Atrabilious
Meaning: bad-tempered or irritable
Example: The pupils were afraid to ask the atrabilious teacher questions.

Word: Atrocious
Meaning: heinous; monstrous
Example: After receiving atrocious reviews; the play closed the day after opening.

Word: Atrocity
Meaning: a horrific action
Example: The atrocity of the murders stunned the entire city.

Word: Atrophy
Meaning: to weaken in ability or function
Example: It was hard to watch my mother atrophy as she experienced the weakening disease of Alzheimer’s.

Word: Attach
Meaning: to tie or connect something to something else
Example: The student will attach a lock to his locker to keep other students from stealing his things.

Word: Attached
Meaning: tied or connected something to something else
Example: At the airport; the clerk attached a piece of paper with our names on it to our luggage.

Word: Attack
Meaning: aggressive or violent action
Example: The attack took place in the middle of the street and frightened many people watching the fight.

Word: Attain
Meaning: to accomplish; to achieve
Example: Linda can not attain peace of mind until she finds her missing dog.

Word: Attainment
Meaning: the act of gaining something by working for it
Example: For Phillip; one of the proudest achievements of his life was the attainment of his medical degree.

Word: Attempt
Meaning: to try; make an effort
Example: Hoping that they could attempt to save their marriage; the husband asked his wife to go to counseling.

Word: Attend
Meaning: to go to an event or meeting
Example: If you want to attend the sales conference; you must sign up online by Friday.

Word: Attendance
Meaning: the number of people present at an event
Example: Attendance at the concert was low because the ticket prices were so high.

Word: Attention
Meaning: the concentration or awareness of something
Example: Her attention to detail when she constructed the very thorough employee manual answered every question a new employee had.

Word: Attentive
Meaning: observant; watchful
Example: As a loyal husband; Barry is very attentive to the needs of his wife Drew.

Word: Attenuate
Meaning: to reduce to a weaker or smaller state
Example: Doctors claim taking the flu vaccine will attenuate the effects of the illness.

Word: Attest
Meaning: to uphold something as real or true
Example: As any police officer can attest; driving while texting is not safe.

Word: Attire
Meaning: one's dress or clothes
Example: The high school prom required formal attire; but no one was allowed to rent a limousine.

Word: Attitude
Meaning: a person’s opinions or feelings about a specific thing; person; or idea
Example: His positive attitude helped everyone enjoy the trip during the rainstorm.

Word: Attorney
Meaning: a person appointed to act for another in business or legal matters
Example: If you’re ever arrested; refuse to answer questions and ask to speak to an attorney.

Word: Attract
Meaning: to cause something to be drawn towards something else
Example: The sweet smell of the flower nectar can attract bees from many miles away.

Word: Attractive
Meaning: good-looking; appealing
Example: Although she found the handsome gentleman attractive; Christine wasn’t sure if she could date a younger guy.

Word: Attribute
Meaning: a characteristic of something
Example: If you want to be a nurse; being compassionate is one attribute you should have.

Word: Attribution
Meaning: the act of assigning someone credit or acknowledgement for doing something
Example: My book included an attribution to all those who edited the manuscript.

Word: Attrition 
Meaning: a decrease in the number of staff or personnel as a result of replacements not been hired when employees leave
Example: Police officer attrition is making it difficult for law enforcement to safeguard the entire community.

Word: Attune
Meaning: to customize or modify something to be more receptive or capable
Example: The radio transmitter wasn’t picking up what we needed; so I had to attune it to the right frequency.

Word: Atypical
Meaning: not normal
Example: Eating meat would be completely atypical for a vegetarian.

Word: Au courant
Meaning: fully informed; up-to-date
Example: The model’s au courant clothing is right off of the New York runway.

Word: Au fait
Meaning: being an expert or having detailed knowledge of a thing
Example: The skillful checker player was much more au fait with this game than he was with chess.

Word: Au gratin
Meaning: cooking technique in which a dish topped with cheese and/or breadcrumbs and then browned
Example: Mary made her famous potatoes au gratin with large sprinkling of freshly shredded gouda.

Word: Auction
Meaning: public sales event
Example: A vintage 1929 Mercedes Benz was sold at auction last week to an anonymous buyer.

Word: Audacious
Meaning: recklessly bold; daring
Example: Cooper was an audacious soldier who never ran from a battle.

Word: Audacity
Meaning: a confident and daring quality that is often seen as shocking or rude
Example: To everyone’s surprise; Jackie had the audacity to invite herself to her rival’s wedding.

Word: Audible
Meaning: capable of being perceived
Example: To block out audible sounds; Jack uses earplugs when flying.

Word: Audience
Meaning: a group of viewers or spectators
Example: Bowing gracefully in front of the audience; the ballerina beamed ear to ear as the attendees shouted for an encore.

Word: Audit
Meaning: to conduct an independent review and examination of certain data 
Example: Before baking brownies; make an audit of the ingredients available to see whether there is enough flour; eggs; and sugar.

Word: Audition
Meaning: to present talents in front of a judge or judges in order to achieve a desired position or role
Example: Diana flew to New York to audition for the leading role of Eliza in Hamilton.

Word: Auditorium
Meaning: a large room or building where people gather to watch a performance or hear a speech
Example: The packed auditorium held almost a thousand concert-goers who were eagerly awaiting the arrival of their idol.

Word: Auditory
Meaning: of or pertaining to hearing
Example: Many people are auditory learners who learn best through hearing.

Word: Aught
Meaning: anything or for all
Example: My psychiatrist says I worry too much; but for aught I know; a stranger could be watching all of my actions.

Word: Augment
Meaning: to increase the size or amount of something
Example: Because I want to augment my income; I am thinking about getting a second job.

Word: Augur
Meaning: to predict what is yet to come 
Example: Even the film’s initial reviews augur the movie’s A-list cast will be front and center on Oscar night.

Word: Augury
Meaning: a prediction or omen
Example: There are those who view the virus as an augury of the world coming to an end.

Word: August
Meaning: much-admired and respected
Example: Everyone wanted the chance to dine with the august president.

Word: Aura 
Meaning: a unique sensation or feeling that stems from an object; person; or place
Example: The angel’s aura made me feel calm and hopeful.

Word: Aural
Meaning: pertaining to the ear or the sense of hearing
Example: Instead of using his eyes to read the book; the truck driver used his aural sense to listen to the contents of the novel.

Word: Auricular
Meaning: of or relating to the ear or the sense of hearing
Example: After getting hearing aids; Grandpa Taylor realized he had fixed his auricular deficiency.

Word: Auriferous
Meaning: describes rocks or minerals that contain gold
Example: Placing his hands on the auriferous treasure; the pirate lusted for the golden trinkets.

Word: Auspices
Meaning: guidance and support
Example: Under the auspices of their commander-in-chief; the troops crossed the border into the war zone.

Word: Auspicious
Meaning: being a sign of future success; indicating a promising future
Example: His brilliant acceptance speech was an auspicious start to his political career.

Word: Austere
Meaning: without any decoration; strict and serious in manner
Example: Even though she appeared austere; my teacher was a very kind woman.

Word: Authentic
Meaning: genuine; real; unfaked
Example: We went to an authentic Mexican restaurant for my birthday where they served cuisine like you would find in Mexico.

Word: Authenticate
Meaning: to prove that something is true or genuine
Example: We will need to authenticate your orders to make sure that they did indeed come from high command before we can let you past this point.

Word: Author
Meaning: someone who writes books for a living
Example: Theodor Seuss Geisel was a famous author who published over sixty children’s books bearing the name Dr. Seuss.

Word: Authoritarian
Meaning: preferring or enforcing strict obedience to authority as opposed to individual freedom
Example: Our teacher is very authoritarian in her management and doesn’t allow us any wiggle room on the rules.

Word: Authoritative
Meaning: having an attribute that encourages people to obey you
Example: The principal has such an authoritative presence that even rebellious students behave around him.

Word: Authority
Meaning: the power to enforce rules or give orders
Example: Because I am the manager; I have the authority to change the policy at my job.

Word: Authorize
Meaning: to give official permission
Example: A manager must authorize the transaction before we can give the customer the money.

Word: Authorship
Meaning: the job of written composition 
Example: In the Bible; the authorship of Revelations is believed to be drafted by John the Apostle because there is evidence that he wrote it.

Word: Autobiography
Meaning: the story of an individual’s life written by that individual
Example: To learn about the deceased celebrity; you should read the autobiography he wrote about his life.

Word: Autochthonous
Meaning: original inhabitants of a place without any migration or intermingling of other groups
Example: Many autochthonous tribes in remote corners of Siberia have never been approached by colonists or married outside of their group.

Word: Autocracy
Meaning: a government type in which one person has boundless power
Example: The country is an autocracy that is controlled solely by a member of the royal family.

Word: Autocrat
Meaning: an individual who rules without considering others
Example: The corrupt autocrat views the brutal dictator as a role model.

Word: Autocratic
Meaning: not concerned about the wishes or opinions of others; heavy-handed
Example: The autocratic dictator ordered the deaths of people who opposed him.

Word: Autodidact
Meaning: self-taught person
Example: After moving to the rural village of the Congo; the autodidact learned math and science due to the only school being over one hundred miles away.

Word: Autograph
Meaning: a person’s own handwriting; especially the signature of a famous or admired person
Example: In order for the check to be valid; Greg needed to include his autograph.

Word: Automated
Meaning: controlled by a machine rather than a person
Example: If you call the hotline; you will talk to an automated system instead of a real person.

Word: Automatic
Meaning: something that is automated; or acts of its own accord without conscious effort or input
Example: A car with an automatic transmission will shift gears appropriately while driving; without any input from the driver themselves.

Word: Automatically
Meaning: spontaneously and involuntarily
Example: As I inhaled dust when I shook the dirty rug; I automatically sneezed without any warning.

Word: Automation
Meaning: the process of making a machine or system work without having to be controlled by a person
Example: Automation of the cotton picking process through the creation of the cotton gen changed the south forever.

Word: Automotive
Meaning: pertaining to a car or other powered automobile
Example: After wrecking my car at the intersection; I took my damaged Honda Accord to the automotive center for repairs.

Word: Autonomy
Meaning: the quality or state of being self-governing
Example: Teenagers should have the autonomy to make their own decisions in preparation for their lives as adults.

Word: Autopsy
Meaning: dissection of a body after death that is conducted to determine how the person died
Example: An autopsy of the deceased was performed against the family’s wishes since neglect was suspected.

Word: Autumn
Meaning: the season between summer and winter; fall
Example: Even though autumn is such a beautiful season; raking all of those leaves becomes such a daily chore for me.

Word: Auxiliary
Meaning: a group or team that provides assistance
Example: When my grandmother retired; she joined the hospital auxiliary team that visited lonely patients.

Word: Avail
Meaning: to be of advantage or use
Example: Stranded in the desert; Jake tried to restart his car but to no avail.

Word: Availability
Meaning: having the time or means supplies to do something
Example: The secretary informed the caller of her boss’s availability to meet that week.

Word: Available
Meaning: accessible and obtainable
Example: When my dream house was put on the market and appraised in my price range; I knew the house would be available for me to purchase it.

Word: Avalanche
Meaning: an unexpected accumulation
Example: During the power outage; our office faced an avalanche of distress calls.

Word: Avant-garde
Meaning: cutting-edge; trendy
Example: The elderly poet was confused by the youth’s avant-garde style of writing.

Word: Avarice
Meaning: A strong desire and greed for money/material things
Example: Mr. Krab’s avarice for money caused him to work his employees to the bone for little pay.

Word: Avaricious
Meaning: desirous of wealth or advancement
Example: Since Tiffany was an avaricious reader; her reading level was at 12th grade level even though she was still in 4th grade.

Word: Avatar
Meaning: in technology; an icon or figure representing a particular person
Example: In the hybrid chat room; an avatar is used in place of the person’s real picture.

Word: Avenge 
Meaning: to retaliate against a group or person who has harmed you in some way
Example: The police officer was determined to avenge his partner by bringing his killer to justice.

Word: Avenue
Meaning: a method or means by which something may be accomplished 
Example: Admittedly; anger is an all too human response to frustration; but it's still no avenue to solid achievement.

Word: Aver
Meaning: to assert something in a convincing way 
Example: Even though the country is in an economic crisis; its leader will aver the nation is doing well during his monthly address.

Word: Average
Meaning: ordinary; not very special
Example: Although others thought the woman to be very beautiful; she was insecure and only saw herself as average.

Word: Averse
Meaning: actively not liking something
Example: For those who are averse to spaghetti; you also have the meal choice of baked chicken with roasted potatoes.

Word: Aversion
Meaning: a feeling of disgust toward something with a desire to avoid it
Example: Older people who are unfamiliar with computer technology often have an aversion to it.

Word: Avert
Meaning: to stop an incident from occurring
Example: I always avert my eyes to avoid seeing the bloody movie scenes.

Word: Avian
Meaning: relating to birds
Example: The avian part of the animal kingdom includes every type of bird there is; from the flightless penguin to the majestic eagle.

Word: Aura 
Meaning: a unique sensation or feeling that stems from an object; person; or place
Example: The angel’s aura made me feel calm and hopeful.

Word: Aural
Meaning: pertaining to the ear or the sense of hearing
Example: Instead of using his eyes to read the book; the truck driver used his aural sense to listen to the contents of the novel.

Word: Auricular
Meaning: of or relating to the ear or the sense of hearing
Example: After getting hearing aids; Grandpa Taylor realized he had fixed his auricular deficiency.

Word: Auriferous
Meaning: describes rocks or minerals that contain gold
Example: Placing his hands on the auriferous treasure; the pirate lusted for the golden trinkets.

Word: Auspices
Meaning: guidance and support
Example: Under the auspices of their commander-in-chief; the troops crossed the border into the war zone.

Word: Auspicious
Meaning: being a sign of future success; indicating a promising future
Example: His brilliant acceptance speech was an auspicious start to his political career.

Word: Austere
Meaning: without any decoration; strict and serious in manner
Example: Even though she appeared austere; my teacher was a very kind woman.

Word: Authentic
Meaning: genuine; real; unfaked
Example: We went to an authentic Mexican restaurant for my birthday where they served cuisine like you would find in Mexico.

Word: Authenticate
Meaning: to prove that something is true or genuine
Example: We will need to authenticate your orders to make sure that they did indeed come from high command before we can let you past this point.

Word: Author
Meaning: someone who writes books for a living
Example: Theodor Seuss Geisel was a famous author who published over sixty children’s books bearing the name Dr. Seuss.

Word: Authoritarian
Meaning: preferring or enforcing strict obedience to authority as opposed to individual freedom
Example: Our teacher is very authoritarian in her management and doesn’t allow us any wiggle room on the rules.

Word: Authoritative
Meaning: having an attribute that encourages people to obey you
Example: The principal has such an authoritative presence that even rebellious students behave around him.

Word: Authority
Meaning: the power to enforce rules or give orders
Example: Because I am the manager; I have the authority to change the policy at my job.

Word: Authorize
Meaning: to give official permission
Example: A manager must authorize the transaction before we can give the customer the money.

Word: Authorship
Meaning: the job of written composition 
Example: In the Bible; the authorship of Revelations is believed to be drafted by John the Apostle because there is evidence that he wrote it.

Word: Autobiography
Meaning: the story of an individual’s life written by that individual
Example: To learn about the deceased celebrity; you should read the autobiography he wrote about his life.

Word: Autochthonous
Meaning: original inhabitants of a place without any migration or intermingling of other groups
Example: Many autochthonous tribes in remote corners of Siberia have never been approached by colonists or married outside of their group.

Word: Autocracy
Meaning: a government type in which one person has boundless power
Example: The country is an autocracy that is controlled solely by a member of the royal family.

Word: Autocrat
Meaning: an individual who rules without considering others
Example: The corrupt autocrat views the brutal dictator as a role model.

Word: Autocratic
Meaning: not concerned about the wishes or opinions of others; heavy-handed
Example: The autocratic dictator ordered the deaths of people who opposed him.

Word: Autodidact
Meaning: self-taught person
Example: After moving to the rural village of the Congo; the autodidact learned math and science due to the only school being over one hundred miles away.

Word: Autograph
Meaning: a person’s own handwriting; especially the signature of a famous or admired person
Example: In order for the check to be valid; Greg needed to include his autograph.

Word: Automated
Meaning: controlled by a machine rather than a person
Example: If you call the hotline; you will talk to an automated system instead of a real person.

Word: Automatic
Meaning: something that is automated; or acts of its own accord without conscious effort or input
Example: A car with an automatic transmission will shift gears appropriately while driving; without any input from the driver themselves.

Word: Automatically
Meaning: spontaneously and involuntarily
Example: As I inhaled dust when I shook the dirty rug; I automatically sneezed without any warning.

Word: Automation
Meaning: the process of making a machine or system work without having to be controlled by a person
Example: Automation of the cotton picking process through the creation of the cotton gen changed the south forever.

Word: Automotive
Meaning: pertaining to a car or other powered automobile
Example: After wrecking my car at the intersection; I took my damaged Honda Accord to the automotive center for repairs.

Word: Autonomy
Meaning: the quality or state of being self-governing
Example: Teenagers should have the autonomy to make their own decisions in preparation for their lives as adults.

Word: Autopsy
Meaning: dissection of a body after death that is conducted to determine how the person died
Example: An autopsy of the deceased was performed against the family’s wishes since neglect was suspected.

Word: Autumn
Meaning: the season between summer and winter; fall
Example: Even though autumn is such a beautiful season; raking all of those leaves becomes such a daily chore for me.

Word: Auxiliary
Meaning: a group or team that provides assistance
Example: When my grandmother retired; she joined the hospital auxiliary team that visited lonely patients.

Word: Avail
Meaning: to be of advantage or use
Example: Stranded in the desert; Jake tried to restart his car but to no avail.

Word: Availability
Meaning: having the time or means supplies to do something
Example: The secretary informed the caller of her boss’s availability to meet that week.

Word: Available
Meaning: accessible and obtainable
Example: When my dream house was put on the market and appraised in my price range; I knew the house would be available for me to purchase it.

Word: Avalanche
Meaning: an unexpected accumulation
Example: During the power outage; our office faced an avalanche of distress calls.

Word: Avant-garde
Meaning: cutting-edge; trendy
Example: The elderly poet was confused by the youth’s avant-garde style of writing.

Word: Avarice
Meaning: A strong desire and greed for money/material things
Example: Mr. Krab’s avarice for money caused him to work his employees to the bone for little pay.

Word: Avaricious
Meaning: desirous of wealth or advancement
Example: Since Tiffany was an avaricious reader; her reading level was at 12th grade level even though she was still in 4th grade.

Word: Avatar
Meaning: in technology; an icon or figure representing a particular person
Example: In the hybrid chat room; an avatar is used in place of the person’s real picture.

Word: Avenge 
Meaning: to retaliate against a group or person who has harmed you in some way
Example: The police officer was determined to avenge his partner by bringing his killer to justice.

Word: Avenue
Meaning: a method or means by which something may be accomplished 
Example: Admittedly; anger is an all too human response to frustration; but it's still no avenue to solid achievement.

Word: Aver
Meaning: to assert something in a convincing way 
Example: Even though the country is in an economic crisis; its leader will aver the nation is doing well during his monthly address.

Word: Average
Meaning: ordinary; not very special
Example: Although others thought the woman to be very beautiful; she was insecure and only saw herself as average.

Word: Averred
Meaning: stated something that was true and accurate
Example: The witness averred that he had seen the suspect run away with the cash and sealed the man’s fate with his damning testimony.

Word: Averse
Meaning: actively not liking something
Example: For those who are averse to spaghetti; you also have the meal choice of baked chicken with roasted potatoes.

Word: Aversion
Meaning: a feeling of disgust toward something with a desire to avoid it
Example: Older people who are unfamiliar with computer technology often have an aversion to it.

Word: Avert
Meaning: to stop an incident from occurring
Example: I always avert my eyes to avoid seeing the bloody movie scenes.

Word: Avian
Meaning: relating to birds
Example: The avian part of the animal kingdom includes every type of bird there is; from the flightless penguin to the majestic eagle.

Word: Aviary
Meaning: confinement for keeping birds; a birdhouse
Example: The cockatiel breeder used a suspended aviary to breed new birds.

Word: Aviation
Meaning: the activity of designing; producing; or flying an aircraft
Example: The top-notch aviation school only allows students with the highest potential to join its pilot program.

Word: Aviator
Meaning: a pilot
Example: The aviator prepared for his first flight across the Pacific by checking his engine and fueling his aircraft.

Word: Avid
Meaning: enthusiastic; passionate
Example: James is an avid supporter of any organization that is trying to improve the environment.

Word: Avidity
Meaning: a strong eagerness or desire
Example: The journalist’s avidity to learn everything there is to know about the case drove her to work long hours.

Word: Avidly
Meaning: in an excited or enthusiastic manner
Example: Airport police became suspicious of a passenger after one of the drug dogs avidly sniffed his carry-on bag.

Word: Avocation
Meaning: an activity one enjoys when he or she is not working
Example: Recently; Sherman discovered woodworking is the type of avocation he enjoys in his spare time.

Word: Avoid
Meaning: to keep away from; dodge or evade
Example: The dieter tries to avoid foods that are high in fat or sugar.

Word: Avoidable
Meaning: able to be stopped or prevented
Example: Diabetes can be avoidable if you reduce your sugar intake and exercise regularly.

Word: Avoidance
Meaning: the act of staying away from someone or something
Example: The procrastinator’s therapist tried to explain that avoidance of a task doesn’t make it disappear.

Word: Avoirdupois
Meaning: a system in the United States for measuring a pound equaling to sixteen ounces
Example: To calculate the weight of the gold using avoirdupois; it was determined that the gold weighed over a pound.

Word: Avouch
Meaning: to declare freely and openly; to assert
Example: Standing at the witness stand; I stated that I could avouch for the sterling reputation of Jennifer.

Word: Avow
Meaning: to admit or confess something publicly
Example: Because the man would not avow himself as a follower of the king in front of the villagers; he was sentenced to death.

Word: Avowal
Meaning: a public testimony or statement
Example: Since the jury members found the defendant guilty; they obviously didn’t believe his avowal of innocence.

Word: Avuncular
Meaning: kind or friendly; like an uncle
Example: My father’s best friend Joe treats me in an avuncular manner and even calls me his niece.

Word: Await
Meaning: to wait for
Example: The troops await their orders for the next deployment.

Word: Aware
Meaning: informed; understanding a situation
Example: Because they weren’t aware that the storm was coming; the family didn’t leave the area when everyone else did.

Word: Awareness
Meaning: the condition of being informed 
Example: In order to bring awareness to the emotional and financial needs of veterans; the singer has planned a benefit concert.

Word: Awe 
Meaning: the sensation one gets from being astounded
Example: An inexperienced teacher; I watched in awe as my mentor silenced the rowdy class.

Word: Awestruck
Meaning: filled with the sentiments of wonder and awe
Example: The little boy was awestruck by the holiday fireworks display.

Word: Awful
Meaning: horrible; terrible
Example: An awful plague took over the city and thousands of people died from the sickness.

Word: Awkward
Meaning: to act in a strange way
Example: Meeting the in-laws for the first time created an awkward situation for me since nobody knew what to say.

Word: Awning
Meaning: an overhang usually attached to a building that is used to block inclement weather conditions like snow; rain; or excessive sunlight
Example: They dashed under an awning to escape the sudden downpour.

Word: Awoke
Meaning: past tense having awakened or risen from sleep
Example: I awoke just before sunrise and hurried out of my bed to see if Santa had arrived while I slept.

Word: AWOL
Meaning: away from military duties without permission
Example: The military base put out an alert for the AWOL soldier who was away without permission.

Word: Awry
Meaning: away from the appropriate; planned; or expected course
Example: After we hit the deer; our road trip seemed to go awry and off course.

Word: Axiom
Meaning: a rule or principal that many people accept as true
Example: Although you keep using that axiom as the basis for your paper; the concept itself is not true.

Word: Axiomatic
Meaning: evident without proof or argument
Example: There was a time when it was regarded as axiomatic that the sun revolves around the earth.

Word: Axis
Meaning: an imaginary line about which a body rotates
Example: Tilting on its axis; the Earth is constantly rotating.

Word: Axle
Meaning: a rod or spindle (either fixed or rotating) passing through the center of a wheel or group of wheels
Example: The axle of a car holds the wheels together on both ends of the car; and if it is broken you will be unable to drive.

Word: Axon
Meaning: the part of a nerve cell that transmits signals away
Example: An electrical charge traveled down the axon as a nerve signal.

Word: Aye
Meaning: a synonym for yes that is used to express agreement or approval
Example: The senator signaled his aye vote by raising his hand.

Word: Azure
Meaning: a vibrant blue hue
Example: On the cruise; I spent hours appreciating the ocean’s azure waves.

Word: Babble
Meaning: to chatter about something in a typically foolish or excitable way
Example: The first time her crush talked to her; she was so excited that she was at a loss for words and began to babble about the weather.

Word: Babel
Meaning: a confused mixture of sounds and voices
Example: The children filled the classroom with babel; leaving the teacher overwhelmed at the sound of so many voices at once.

Word: Babelicious
Meaning: very physically attractive or sexy
Example: The men continued to catcall the babelicious woman as she walked down the street in her short skirt.

Word: Baccalaureate
Meaning: a typical four-year degree from a college or university
Example: In order for the college student to receive her baccalaureate; she must pass another math class.

Word: Bacchanal 
Meaning: a wild incident involving a drunken celebration
Example: The hotel ended the bachelor party after it turned into a noisy bacchanal.

Word: Bacchanalian
Meaning: relating to or given to reveling and drunkenness
Example: By the time the bacchanalian party ended; everyone was vomiting up their alcohol.

Word: Bachelor
Meaning: a typically young; single man actively in search of a romantic relationship
Example: Many single men like to think of themselves as a bachelor; but if they aren’t trying to find a partner they’re just single men.

Word: Back-and-forth
Meaning: moving first in one direction and then in another
Example: The back-and-forth movement of the ship caused those onboard to become seasick.

Word: Backache
Meaning: a pain or ache in the area around one’s spine
Example: After bending over for several hours at work; the baggage claim worker began to suffer from a terrible backache.

Word: Backbite
Meaning: to speak negatively or maliciously about someone who is not present to defend themselves
Example: The teenage girls tend to backbite each other and talk mess when they’re with their other friends.

Word: Backbite
Meaning: to talk or gossip about someone in a way that is spiteful or mean
Example: Grace makes an effort not to backbite or discuss others negatively while at school.

Word: Backbone
Meaning: the foundation or sturdiest part of something
Example: Because he was the backbone of the company; operations stopped after Jim died.

Word: Backdoor
Meaning: refers to an indirect or dishonest way of doing or achieving something
Example: The failing company’s backdoor bailout allowed them to get rid of their debt but left their shocked employees without jobs.

Word: Backdoor
Meaning: an indirect and dishonest way of doing something
Example: Because of a shady backdoor deal; the politician lost support from someone he thought was a loyal backer.

Word: Backdrop
Meaning: a painted piece of cloth that is used as the background for a performance picture
Example: The photographer used an airbrushed backdrop to make it look the photos were actually being taken in a field.

Word: Backer
Meaning: a supporter or follower of someone or something
Example: The anonymous backer is supporting the project by fully funding the activities for the students.

Word: Backfire
Meaning: of a plan or scheme to have the opposite outcome of what was expected
Example: The celebrity thinks her racy Twitter comments help her gain fans; but I believe writing these kinds of statements might backfire.

Word: Background 
Meaning: the area or scenery behind the main object of focus
Example: Although the current stage backdrop is beautiful; the director wants a background with more muted colors.

Word: Backhand
Meaning: to strike someone with the upside of the hand
Example: In a fit of anger; the woman raised her hand to backhand the child but caught herself before she made contact.

Word: Backhoe
Meaning: a mechanical tractor with a bucket on an extending arm that is used to dig things up
Example: The farmer will use a backhoe to dig up some of the stubborn dirt in several field rows.

Word: Backlash
Meaning: a strong feeling among a group of people in reaction to a change or recent event
Example: The president received backlash from thousands of people who disagreed with his Twitter statements.

Word: Backlog
Meaning: work that has piled up 
Example: The secretary had a backlog of a hundred documents that needed to be filed before the end of the day.

Word: Backpedal
Meaning: to change one’s previously expressed opinions or statements
Example: After people became angry about the celebrity’s Twitter remarks; she began to backpedal on what she said.

Word: Backrest
Meaning: a support used to brace the area around one’s spine
Example: After having surgery on his spine; the patient used a backrest for added support.

Word: Backstab
Meaning: to betray one’s friendship by acting in a deceitful way or speaking against someone when they’re not around
Example: Erin was upset that her very best friend would backstab her by having an affair with her husband.

Word: Backup
Meaning: a person or thing that assists or supports someone/something else
Example: The working mother is looking for a backup babysitter to watch her daughter on days her nanny cannot care for the child.

Word: Backward
Meaning: pertaining to the direction towards the back 
Example: Timmy accidentally dropped the soccer ball; and it rolled backward all the way down the hill.

Word: Bacteria
Meaning: microscopic living organisms; some of which are dangerous and can cause illness
Example: The teacher taught her students the importance of washing their hands to kill off bad bacteria.

Word: Bacterium
Meaning: once-celled microscopic living organisms that can cause infection
Example: The dirty slide was placed under the microscope so that the students could see all of the bacterium growing in the microbe-infested goop.

Word: Bade
Meaning: the past tense of bid; bade is used to express greetings and goodbyes
Example: As the cruise ship exited the harbor; the people bade farewell from the ship.

Word: Badge
Meaning: a small piece of metal or plastic worn to show that you are a part of some specific group or organization
Example: The officer’s shiny; star-shaped badge let the people know that he was part of the police force.

Word: Badger
Meaning: to bother or pester
Example: My daughter will badger me until I explain to her how to tie her shoes.

Word: Badinage 
Meaning: good-humored banter
Example: The humorous badinage between the coworkers made the long workday go faster.

Word: Badly
Meaning: severely or seriously
Example: With his head bashed in from hitting the windshield; the car crash victim was considered badly hurt.

Word: Baffled 
Meaning: totally confused or puzzled
Example: The complex puzzle baffled me for several hours before I could connect all the pieces.

Word: Bafflement
Meaning: a state of confusion or disarray
Example: The man was left in bafflement when he witnessed something he couldn’t explain occur on the side of the road.

Word: Bail
Meaning: an amount of money that a person who has been accused of a crime pays to a law court so that they can leave jail temporarily
Example: Bail money was requested before the arrested could be released to his family.

Word: Bailiff
Meaning: a legal officer who maintains order in a courtroom during a trial
Example: As the defendant’s witness stood in the witness box; the bailiff held the Bible out to swear her in.

Word: Bailiwick
Meaning: the district within which a bailie or bailiff has jurisdiction
Example: The bailiwick was quiet as the bailiff patrolled.

Word: Bait-And-Switch
Meaning: the action of advertising a product with the intent of selling inferior goods
Example: It does not happen much in America; but in less regulated countries many customers fall victim to the bait-and-switch tactic; buying something shoddy that was advertised as being superior.

Word: Balance
Meaning: remainder
Example: We put a deposit down on our vacation; with the remaining balance being due by June.

Word: Balderdash
Meaning: ridiculous thoughts or words
Example: Every word that came out of the drunk man’s mouth was balderdash.

Word: Bale
Meaning: a bundle of something (paper; hay; etc.) tightly bound together
Example: The first little pig needed another compressed bale of straw to finish building his house.

Word: Baleful 
Meaning: hinting at possible harm or danger
Example: With a baleful stare; the gang member pointed his gun at the unarmed police officer.

Word: Balk
Meaning: refuse to comply
Example: While my dog loves to go for walks in good weather; he will always balk if he gets the slightest whiff of rain in the air.

Word: Balkanization
Meaning: typically as the result of or end of a war; when large land areas are broken down into smaller states
Example: The balkanization of Yugoslavia happened after civil wars broke out on the country and several areas broke away to form their own states.

Word: Ballad
Meaning: a slow tune that usually focuses on love
Example: My husband and I ended date night by dancing to a romantic ballad.

Word: Ballistic
Meaning: suddenly angry; sad; or otherwise overcome with emotion
Example: After failing the test; the ballistic student began to scream and bang her head against the classroom wall.

Word: Ballistics
Meaning: the scientific study of the motion of objects that are thrown or shot through the air
Example: Using the science of ballistics; I created a Frisbee that spins back toward the thrower.

Word: Ballot
Meaning: a piece of paper or sheet on which a voter marks his or her choice
Example: Because the election fell on his 18th birthday; Aiden was finally able to cast a ballot for president of the United States.

Word: Ballyhoo
Meaning: a fuss or excessive publicity
Example: A ballyhoo was made over the silly video.

Word: Balm
Meaning: similar to a lotion that is used to soothe dry skin
Example: Since I was going to a place with a cold dry climate; I decided to get some balm to prevent my hands from getting dry.

Word: Balmy
Meaning: enjoyable and gentle
Example: The balmy climate immediately improved my spirits.

Word: Baloney
Meaning: nonsense
Example: I saw you take the money with my own eyes; that’s baloney.

Word: Balustrade
Meaning: an attachment to the side of a wall near a set of stairs or a waist-level wall used to prevent people from falling down or over something
Example: Anna firmly held on to the balustrade as she climbed the hundreds of steps to the top of the Eiffel Tower.

Word: Bamboozle
Meaning: to cheat or deceive another person
Example: The waiter tried to bamboozle me into giving him extra money by saying the tip had not been included in the check.

Word: Ban
Meaning: a ban means to exclude something or someone from a place
Example: There is a ban on cell phone use during the standardized test administered at the university.

Word: Banal
Meaning: boring because it contains nothing new and lacks originality
Example: Because the movie’s plot was banal; we knew exactly how the film would end.

Word: Banausic
Meaning: relating to jobs or workers that require/have technical skills rather than higher education
Example: Mike prefers a banausic job where he can use his hands and get dirty.

Word: Bandwagon
Meaning: a cause or thing that has become trendy or fashionable
Example: Many city residents jumped on the football bandwagon after our local professional team won the national championship.

Word: Bandy 
Meaning: to exchange words back and forth
Example: The political candidates will bandy during the debate tonight.

Word: Bane
Meaning: something causing misery or death
Example: Distraction is the bane of productivity when I’m trying to get anything done.

Word: Baneful
Meaning: destructive or harmful
Example: If not cooked properly; the fish can be baneful to humans.

Word: Banish 
Meaning: to cast out or away
Example: The ghost hunters tried to banish the ghosts from the house.

Word: Banished
Meaning: sent one away or forced one to leave a place
Example: Since they didn’t support the regime; the family was banished from their country and forced to leave.

Word: Bankrupt
Meaning: declared in law unable to pay debts owed; financially ruined
Example: Even though the woman was bankrupt; she still shopped as if she had plenty of money.

Word: Banquet
Meaning: a large celebratory meal; a feast
Example: At the end of the football season; the Mavericks held a banquet to recognize the players on the team.

Word: Bantam
Meaning: petite-sized chickens; a short and aggressive individual
Example: As the small-statured bantam was quick to grow angry at the site of his flock of bantam roaming outside of his farm; he quickly shooed them into their small pen clucking the whole way.

Word: Banter
Meaning: good humored conversation
Example: We need to help shy Sarah perfect her banter with the opposite sex.

Word: Barb
Meaning: a sharp pointy wire that projects out from a longer wire or hook
Example: When my shirt got snagged on the barb of the wire; it ripped a hole in it as I pulled away from the fence.

Word: Barbarian
Meaning: refers to a person who is considered uncivilized or with no manners
Example: Slopping up his soup and grunting while he ate; the barbarian finished his meal in minutes.

Word: Barbaric
Meaning: uncivilized; rude
Example: Because the barbaric moviegoer shouted and threw popcorn at other guests; he was asked to leave.

Word: Barbarous
Meaning: cruel; brutal
Example: The killer’s barbarous acts disgusted the jury and landed him a lengthy prison sentence.

Word: Barbed
Meaning: having sharp pointy wires stick out from a longer wire or hooks
Example: In order to keep the prisoners from escaping; a dangerous barbed wire fence was installed so that the prisoner’s skin would get ripped if an escape attempt was made.

Word: Bare
Meaning: naked; uncovered
Example: Jason made a bare handed catch deep in the outfield; which made him cry out in pain.

Word: Barefoot
Meaning: without socks or shoes
Example: While on the beach; the couple took off their shoes and went barefoot.

Word: Barely
Meaning: hardly ever; rarely
Example: Although they barely see each other anymore; Bert and Ernie still consider each other best friends.

Word: Bargain
Meaning: good deal; surprisingly cheap
Example: I will only shop at the mall when I believe that I can find a bargain deal.

Word: Barge
Meaning: to move in a rough or forceful way
Example: The cops waited in ambush outside Kevin’s door; ready to barge into his home as soon as they received the signal.

Word: Barker
Meaning: a person who calls out to passersby to attract customers to a theater or sideshow
Example: The barker stood outside of the carnival entrance; calling out to passersby and inviting them inside.

Word: Barometer
Meaning: something used as an indicator
Example: The unemployment rate has long been considered a barometer of a country’s economic status.

Word: Baron
Meaning: a male member of the lowest rank of English nobility 
Example: Most of the barons and lords that went up against Arthur; and lost; ended up as his knights and governing heads.

Word: Baroque 
Meaning: having a great deal of decorative embellishment; also referring to a time period in which heavy ornamentation was used in design; music; and art
Example: The elaborate architecture of the baroque dwelling seemed out of place in the neighborhood of simply-designed homes.

Word: Barracks
Meaning: lodging quarters in a structure for military troops
Example: After the mission; the soldiers went back to their barracks to get some rest in their bunks and put away their gear.

Word: Barrage
Meaning: a large volume of something; or a large quantity of things happening all at once
Example: Even though Mrs. Anderson knew that her students would probably barrage her with whines and complaints; she assigned fifty pages of reading to be done over the holidays.

Word: Barren
Meaning: (of land) a place with little or no vegetation
Example: Looking out the window of the airplane; I realized that some deserts are actually more barren than others.

Word: Barren
Meaning: unable to reproduce or grow something
Example: The barren woman could never get over the fact that she couldn’t have children.

Word: Barrette
Meaning: a typically bar-shaped clip or ornament for the hair
Example: She popped open the barrette and tried to clip it around her hair; but it was too thick.

Word: Barricade
Meaning: a barrier used to close or block a road 
Example: The police set up a barricade to keep the public from entering a crime scene.

Word: Barrier
Meaning: an obstacle that blocks access
Example: Not having transportation was a barrier to the girl enrolling in college courses.

Word: Barring
Meaning: excluding a person or something
Example: Barring an injury; the star quarterback will be able to play in Sunday’s big game.

Word: Barrister
Meaning: a British lawyer who is allowed to argue cases in the higher law courts
Example: While presenting his case in front of a judge; the barrister explained his client’s position.

Word: Barter
Meaning: to make an exchange using something other than a from of currency
Example: Since I do not have any money; I’m hoping I can barter my maid services in exchange for much-needed lawn care.

Word: Base
Meaning: the bottom section that sustains a bigger item or thing
Example: Below the Statue of Liberty on its base is an inscription welcoming and calling for any immigrants who want to make the United States their home.

Word: Baseline
Meaning: a minimum starting point
Example: The children will take a baseline test to determine which skills they have and which are missing.

Word: Baseness
Meaning: a shortage of positive qualities
Example: The political candidate’s election hopes were dashed when a book was published that detailed the baseness of his college days.

Word: Bash
Meaning: to strike someone or something with extreme force 
Example: I wear protective face gear so that the baseball does not bash me in the face.

Word: Bashful
Meaning: shy or easily embarrassed
Example: The bashful student turned red with embarrassment.

Word: Basic
Meaning: simple and not complicated
Example: We choose a basic phone package; but may need to upgrade to a better plan.

Word: Basin
Meaning: a kitchen sink
Example: My grandparents told us to wash up in the basin before suppertime.

Word: Basis
Meaning: foundation; base
Example: The research study had a scientific basis; but also included religious topics.

Word: Bask 
Meaning: to obtain joy from receiving praise or attention
Example: After a performance; the singer remains onstage for five minutes to bask in the audience’s adoration.

Word: Bass
Meaning: low in pitch; such as a male voice or an instrument
Example: The blues singer let out a low; deep tone with his bass guitar.

Word: Bastion
Meaning: an individual or object dedicated to a belief or idea
Example: In the film; the princess believed the wise old man was her last bastion of hope.

Word: Batch
Meaning: collection; group; or quantity of something made at one time
Example: The homemaker baked a batch of homemade chocolate chip cookies for her family.

Word: Bate
Meaning: the action of a hawk beating its wings to attempt a takeoff from its perch
Example: A baby hawk will have to bate furiously to lift its tiny body out of its nest and into the air for the first time.

Word: Bathe
Meaning: to clean oneself immersion in water or using water
Example: Bathe with soap and water to wash off dirt and dead skin cells.

Word: Bathos
Meaning: a sudden change in a style of writing or speech that involves going from a complex or elaborate form to a trivial one; either in topic or wording
Example: With a great deal of bathos; Lenny went from proclaiming his innocence to confessing he'd eaten the last slice of pumpkin pie.

Word: Battalion
Meaning: a military unit that is usually 300 to 800 soldiers; comprised of several companies
Example: A battalion of troops is comprised of many smaller companies; so that they can be divided and deployed around the battlefield as needed.

Word: Battle
Meaning: a fight or confrontation in which two sides face off
Example: Losing their final battle; the Indians agreed to give up their land and move west.

Word: Battlement
Meaning: a wall around the top of a fortress with spaces in it through which the people inside the castle shoot weapons
Example: Behind the castle battlement; the king’s men prepared to fire their arrows at the intruders down below.

Word: Batty
Meaning: crazy and out of one’s mind
Example: The batty woman walked the streets yelling “ca-caw” and flapping her arms as if she were a bird.

Word: Bauble
Meaning: a cheap showy ornament or piece of jewelry
Example: At first I thought that the trinkets sold on the island had value; but I then realized that they were nothing other than worthless bauble.

Word: Bawdy 
Meaning: indecent; obscene
Example:  The church is certainly not the place for your bawdy remarks.

Word: Bawl
Meaning: to cry extremely loudly
Example: Even as the spoiled rich girl put on her diamond bracelets; she would bawl about how her parents didn’t love her.

Word: Bay
Meaning: an inlet by the sea where the land curves inward
Example: Otis Redding was sitting on the dock of the bay; watching the tide roll away.

Word: Bayonet
Meaning: a long knife attached to the end of a rifle
Example: He removed his bayonet from his rifle; and was using it as a combat knife now; since a rifle would be too cumbersome.

Word: Bayou
Meaning: slow-moving creek or swamp
Example: My cousin wanted to swim in the bayou until I mentioned that there were alligators in the water.

Word: Bazaar
Meaning: a market (frequently seen in the Middle East) that offers an assortment of items for purchase
Example: While shopping at the bazaar; I found a number of international foods.

Word: Beacon
Meaning: a thing or person that provides guidance to people
Example: The lighthouse is a beacon for ships lost in the night.

Word: Beadle
Meaning: a British term used to refer to a leader of a church who assists the minister or priest in his duties
Example: When Mr. Peterson worked as the church’s beadle; he ran most of the fundraising events for the minister.

Word: Beak
Meaning: the hard; pointed part of a bird’s mouth
Example: Tapping the bark with his hard beak; the woodpecker tried to use his bill to break through.

Word: Beam
Meaning: to smile very happily
Example: Once the baby was born; the mother would beam with pride while gazing at the newest member of her family.

Word: Beamed
Meaning: shined brightly
Example: During the hottest part of the day; the sun beamed down on the garden and scorched the plants with its bright light.

Word: Bear
Meaning: to tolerate or accept something
Example: Michelle couldn’t bear to see her ex-husband with someone else; even years after their divorce.

Word: Bearable
Meaning: capable of being endured
Example: The window in my cell made my time in prison bearable.

Word: Bearing
Meaning: carrying; having; withstanding
Example: Bearing a dark secret; the young girl finally confided in a guidance counselor about the abuse she suffered from her family.

Word: Beast
Meaning: a large; dangerous animal
Example: The giant beast appeared from behind the cliff and growled a fearsome snarl at the children looking for berries.

Word: Beatific
Meaning: heavenly or blessed
Example: The bride looked angelic and wore a beatific expression as she walked down the aisle.

Word: Beatitude
Meaning: utmost bliss and happiness
Example: Her beatitude was sparked when her boyfriend proposed.

Word: Beau
Meaning: a wealthy gentlemen
Example: The dapper beau always dressed in his fine silk shirt; high-quality suit and a red carnation stuck in his lapel before walking outside.

Word: Beaucoup
Meaning: many; a great number
Example: The successful salesman made beaucoup money hawking thousands of cheap vehicles to unsuspecting customers.

Word: Beauteous
Meaning: beautiful
Example: My beauteous bride glimmered in her stunning white gown; as she stood under our wedding canopy.

Word: Beautify
Meaning: to make beautiful; or to increase the beauty of
Example: To beautify the earth; citizens need to keep the grounds clean.

Word: Beauty
Meaning: the quality of being pleasing to look at because of shape; color; sound or other sensory aspects
Example: Impressed by her beauty; the man knew that he had to marry the gorgeous woman at first sight.

Word: Beck
Meaning: a stream that moves from a mountain
Example: Water flowed swiftly over the stony bed of the beck and emptied into a larger stream at the mountain’s edge.

Word: Beckon
Meaning: to motion for an individual to come closer
Example: Because I was hungry; the restaurant seemed to beckon to me.

Word: Bedfellow
Meaning: an ally or associate connected to a person through a particular activity
Example: Anthony became a bedfellow of Jared when they both joined the same fraternity.

Word: Bedizen
Meaning: to be adorned in tawdry or loud clothing
Example: Due to the girl wanting attention; she decided to be bedizen herself with her brightly colored rhinestone jacket.

Word: Bedlam
Meaning: a condition of chaos
Example: Bedlam appeared to reign in the overcrowded school cafeteria.

Word: Bedraggled
Meaning: messy and filthy
Example: The neglected puppy was bedraggled and near-death.

Word: Bedrock
Meaning: solid rock that is under the soil
Example: In areas where soil is scarce; solid bedrock lies right under the surface.

Word: Befall
Meaning: to occur or happen to a person
Example: If anything bad should befall me; I leave all my possessions to my loving husband.

Word: Befitting 
Meaning: suitable
Example: Many people do not believe short dresses are befitting for women over the age of forty.

Word: Beforehand
Meaning: earlier or previously
Example: Without looking down the road beforehand; the young boy quickly darted out into the street getting hit by a car.

Word: Befriend
Meaning: to become a person’s pal or friend
Example: In an effort to befriend me; my rival offered to treat me to lunch.

Word: Befuddled
Meaning: puzzled; baffled
Example: Even with my professor’s help; I was still befuddled by the complicated chemistry formula.

Word: Beget
Meaning: to cause (something) to happen or exist
Example: In my dysfunctional family; fighting never failed to beget more fighting.

Word: Beggar
Meaning: a person who begs for money or food due to extreme poverty 
Example: The homeless beggar stands outside of stores in hopes of receiving money from patrons.

Word: Beginner
Meaning: a person just learning a skill or activity
Example: The beginner bowler only knocked a couple of pins down during his first few games.

Word: Begrudge
Meaning: to be envious of what one feels another does not deserve
Example: It is impossible for me to not begrudge my neighbor of the ten million dollars he won in the lottery.

Word: Beguile
Meaning: to attract or interest someone
Example: The car salesman tried to beguile the customer with an offer of free gas for a year.

Word: Begun
Meaning: started
Example: Right after the baby begun to cry; her mother came running into her room.

Word: Behalf
Meaning: representative of
Example: The director accepted the award on behalf of the entire cast.

Word: Behavior
Meaning: conduct
Example: Explaining that his behavior was unacceptable; the teacher corrected the misbehaving student and placed him in time out.

Word: Behemoth
Meaning: gigantic and very powerful
Example: The monster truck rally showcased a behemoth whose tires were twice as tall as I am.

Word: Behest 
Meaning: a request of great importance
Example: At the president’s behest; the prisoner will be pardoned for his crimes.

Word: Behold
Meaning: to see; or to look at
Example: Watching the fight at the arena was a sight to behold.

Word: Beholden
Meaning: owing something in return for service or help
Example:  Stan refused to accept a college loan because he didn’t want to feel beholden to anyone.

Word: Behoof
Meaning: benefit or advantage
Example: A parent forces their child to eat the vegetables they don’t like to behoof them; so they can grow up strong and healthy.

Word: Behoove
Meaning: in an individual’s interest
Example: If you seriously want to get your driving permit; it would behoove you to start studying for the computer test.

Word: Belabor
Meaning: to emphasize an idea or suggestion too much in a way that becomes boring or annoying; to go on and on about something
Example: If you’re just going to continue to belabor the point; I’m going home.

Word: Belated
Meaning: occurring past the regular time period
Example: Since I forgot about Jim’s birthday last week; I will send him a belated greeting today.

Word: Belay
Meaning: tying a rope to an object to to keep it steady or down. occassionally used to reference climbers who tie ropes to rocks to belay down the mountainside
Example: The teenagers belay their surfboards to the top of the car with bungee cords before heading to the beach.

Word: Beleaguer
Meaning: to cause constant or repeated trouble for
Example: On Halloween; I know the little trick-or-treaters are going to beleaguer me all night long.

Word: Belfry
Meaning: a bell tower attached to the top of a church or other building
Example: The Hunchback of Notre Dame lived at the top of the belfry; preferring to be with bats and bells.

Word: Belie
Meaning: to give a false impression of 
Example: Jason tried to belie the fact he was a lousy worker by showing up early at the office.

Word: Belief
Meaning: the feeling of being certain that something exists or is true
Example: It was the police officer’s belief that a serial killer was in the area; mainly because the murders kept happening.

Word: Believe
Meaning: to consider something to be true; to have confidence or trust in something
Example: The boy doesn’t believe in monsters; but his little brother thinks that they are real.

Word: Belittle
Meaning: to speak of something or someone in unflattering terms
Example: Even though John’s project was awful; I did not want to belittle his efforts so I went out of my way to pay him a compliment on his work.

Word: Bell curve
Meaning: a graph that represents the distribution of probabilities of a set of data in a bell-shaped pattern
Example: The student plugged all of the data into a bell curve and used the graph to display his findings.

Word: Bellhop
Meaning: a hotel worker who performs tasks like carrying luggage for guests
Example: The bellhop stood at the entrance of the hotel and opened the door for all incoming guests.

Word: Bellicose
Meaning: demonstrating aggression and willingness to fight; eager for war
Example: Don't cop that bellicose attitude with your mother!

Word: Belligerent
Meaning: hostile; ready to fight
Example: My brother was always belligerent and ready to fight.

Word: Bellow
Meaning: a low and roaring sound 
Example: Since the medic did not have anesthesia; he expected to hear a loud bellow as he removed the bullet from the soldier.

Word: Bellwether
Meaning: something or someone that points out upcoming trends
Example: At his brokerage firm; Ted is known as the bellwether because he always knows which stocks will become profitable.

Word: Belong
Meaning: be the property of
Example: The dogs wear tags that show what families they belong to.

Word: Beloved
Meaning: describing someone who is much loved
Example: When the beloved actor died; his passing was mourned by millions of people.

Word: Below
Meaning: underneath; on a lower level
Example: The descending ship began to sink below the surface after running into the side of the shore.

Word: Bemoan 
Meaning: to express displeasure 
Example: As a military wife; I bemoan our country’s involvement in yet another war.

Word: Bemused
Meaning: preoccupied or lost in thought
Example: After listening to the confusing lecture; the college girl was bemused.

Word: Bench
Meaning: to take a player out of a game
Example: Kevin knew that his basketball coach would bench him after the physical altercation with the rival’s top player.

Word: Benchmark
Meaning: a standard or target
Example: Setting a testing benchmark for all students; administration insisted that teachers push their children towards this target.

Word: Benedict
Meaning: a man who was a bachelor for an extended period of time; but has recently married
Example: After living years as a single man; the benedict has now settled into married life with his new bride.

Word: Benediction
Meaning: a brief prayer asking for a blessing or help
Example: In the hospital chapel; we said a benediction asking God to heal our mother.

Word: Benefaction
Meaning: a distributed donation
Example: The billionaire’s generous donation will allow us to build a new homeless shelter.

Word: Benefactor
Meaning: someone who helps another person; group; etc.; by giving money
Example: The anonymous benefactor did not want his church donation made public.

Word: Beneficent
Meaning: prone to doing kind and generous things
Example: My beneficent neighbor gives out meals to the poor every Sunday.

Word: Beneficial
Meaning: helpful or good to something or someone
Example: The vitamins he took were beneficial to his health.

Word: Beneficiary
Meaning: a group or individual that gains something
Example: As the billionaire’s only beneficiary; Cheryl will receive the entire estate.

Word: Benefit
Meaning: a payment; advantage; or gift
Example: Since I get sick a lot; my health insurance is one work-related benefit I really appreciate.

Word: Benevolence
Meaning: kindness; generous giving
Example: Because of the benevolence of their neighbors; the poor family was able to eat a homecooked meal every night.

Word: Benevolent
Meaning: willing to help; do good; and be generous towards people
Example: Holding the door open for Marie was very benevolent of you.

Word: Benighted
Meaning: lacking knowledge
Example: Plantation owners viewed slaves as benighted animals who had to be told what to do at every moment.

Word: Benign
Meaning: having no significant effect; harmless
Example: When the doctor said my tumor was benign; I was so happy.

Word: Benignant
Meaning: kind and goodhearted
Example: The benignant teacher volunteered her time; spreading kindness to everyone she met.

Word: Benignity
Meaning: the trait of being gentle and nice
Example: Jared’s benignity makes him too nice and allows him to be an easy target for con artists.

Word: Benison
Meaning: a blessing
Example: Karen asked her friend to say a benison while standing over the Thanksgiving dinner with her large family.

Word: Bent
Meaning: the state of being curved; crooked; or inclined from a straight line 
Example: Molly was bent over; drinking from the water fountain.

Word: Bequeath
Meaning: to give or leave by will 
Example: Since my father and I had often worked together on his classic car; I was not surprised to learn his will included his desire to bequeath me the vehicle.

Word: Bequest
Meaning: property or money gifted after an individual’s death
Example: With the bequest from the deceased billionaire; the school was able to build a new dormitory.

Word: Berate
Meaning: to yell at; to criticize or scold someone in a loud and angry way
Example: Shamefaced; the students sat quietly as Mrs. Garcia continued to berate them for the way they had treated the substitute.

Word: Bereave
Meaning: to take away something
Example: My grandfather’s death is sure to bereave my grandmother of her happiness.

Word: Bereaved
Meaning: depressed as a result of a loved one’s death 
Example: The bereaved mother did not leave her home for several months.

Word: Bereavement
Meaning: the mental state which occurs after someone has suffered a loss; usually a death
Example: When the principal died suddenly; the school district hired a bereavement counselor to help the students deal with their emotions.

Word: Bereft
Meaning: deprived
Example: When my husband died; I felt bereft of love and hope.

Word: Beret
Meaning: a type of round brimless cap; headgear 
Example: The green beret is a symbol of commitment and sacrifice to the brave men who challenged themselves to be the best of the best in the U.S. Army Special Forces.

Word: Berry
Meaning: a small succulent fruit; of any one of many varieties 
Example: Every summer we'd pluck berries from a berry tree and make jam.

Word: Berserk
Meaning: out of control with high emotions; wild
Example: Jimmy went totally berserk when Sandra told him that she was breaking off their engagement.

Word: Beseech
Meaning: to ask someone for something in an urgent and sincere way
Example: As soon as I reach the driving age; I will beseech my parents to buy me a car.

Word: Beset
Meaning: to surround or attack from all sides
Example: The expectant mother was beset with a new set of anxieties every time she heard some of her friends’ stories about childbirth.

Word: Besiege
Meaning: to approach with an excessive number of requests or questions
Example: The journalists will besiege the police chief with questions about the prisoner’s escape.

Word: Besmirch
Meaning: to smear an individual’s reputation or character
Example: The woman’s adultery accusation is sure to besmirch the married politician’s reputation.

Word: Besot
Meaning: to cause someone look silly or foolish; especially by drinking
Example: The huge glass of liquor besot the drunkard; causing him to dance on the bar and make stupid jokes.

Word: Besotted
Meaning: strongly infatuated or obsessed
Example: The besotted mother treated her child like a princess; despite the fact that she risked spoiling her.

Word: Bespeak
Meaning: suggest; indicate
Example: Thousands of homeless old-timers in the city might bespeak a larger scale problem with our national veteran services.

Word: Bespoke
Meaning: individually or custom made
Example: Jack is a master tailor who creates bespoke suits.

Word: Bestial
Meaning: like a wild animal or beast; exceptionally violent and cruel
Example: At the movie’s conclusion; there was a bestial scene that ended with the beheading of the bad guy.

Word: Bestow
Meaning: to give as a tribute or gift
Example: During the ceremony; the prime minister will bestow medals of honor to the brave soldiers who rescued their comrades.

Word: Bestowal
Meaning: to freely give something as a gift
Example: Mr. Markham’s bestowal of such high dowries to his 10 daughters was a surprise to everyone because for years they believed him penniless.

Word: Bestowed
Meaning: presented with
Example: The queen bestowed a title upon the man who saved her life.

Word: Bestride
Meaning: to sit with legs on both sides of something
Example: After mounting; the children over six years old would bestride the horse.

Word: Bet
Meaning: to risk something against another person on the outcome of a future event
Example: I am going to bet fifty dollars against my friend that it is going to snow today; while he is betting fifty that it will not.

Word:  Betide 
Meaning: to occur or happen to; befall
Example: Because Kurt and I love each other we know our marriage will last; whatever may betide while he is stationed overseas in the military.

Word: Betoken
Meaning: indicate or specify 
Example: In college; a sock wrapped around the door knob serves to betoken a roommate has a guest and does not wish to be disturbed.

Word: Betray
Meaning: expose (one's country; a group; or a person) to danger by treacherously giving information to an enemy
Example: Harry decided to betray his country and spy for the enemy; despite all that America had done for him.

Word: Betrothed 
Meaning: the person to whom one is engaged
Example: I must remain faithful to my betrothed and ignore the flirtations of the handsome man at the bar.

Word: Betterment
Meaning: the process of improving something and making it better
Example: The teacher put in long hours of after school tutoring for the betterment of her students.

Word: Between
Meaning: at; into; or across the space separating two objects or regions
Example: She hid her love letters between the pages of her favorite book.

Word: Betwixt
Meaning: between; specifically between two objects
Example: Steven shaved off the hair betwixt his nose and upper lip; otherwise known as the mustache.

Word: Bevel
Meaning: to create a sloping surface or edge
Example: The carpenter will bevel the roof so that it slopes down slightly on both sides.

Word: Bevy
Meaning: a sizable group of things or individuals
Example: In hopes of receiving a bevy of presents; Hank invited a lot of people to his birthday party.

Word: Bewail
Meaning: expressing extreme sorrow by crying or complaining 
Example: During lunch Matt took the opportunity to bewail the incompetence of his office mates.

Word: Beware
Meaning: to use caution; pay attention to 
Example: Beware of falling rocks from the top of the mountain.

Word: Bewildered
Meaning: puzzled or confused 
Example: Jason was bewildered by the strange noises coming from his neighbor’s house.

Word: Bewilderment
Meaning: the circumstance of being in a puzzled state
Example: I stared in bewilderment at the cat and dog dancing together.

Word: Bewitched
Meaning: to cast a magical spell on someone
Example: Evil witches bewitched the children and ate them for lunch once they were under their spell.

Word: Beyond
Meaning: past a specified point
Example: The prisoners couldn't see beyond the barbed wire fence that surrounded their compound.

Word: Bias
Meaning: prejudice favoring a person; thing or group; most often in a way thought to be unfair 
Example: After a long court battle; the firm was found guilty of showing bias against females in its promotion practices.

Word: Bib
Meaning: a piece of cloth or plastic fitted around the neck of a person to prevent food from getting on their clothes while they eat; typically used for babies
Example: Because babies are such messy eaters; we often tie a bib around their neck to catch any of the food they drop form their mouths or hands.

Word: Bibliography
Meaning: a list of the works referred to in a scholarly piece; usually at the end in the form of an appendix
Example: Most English teachers require you to have a bibliography with your research paper; giving proof of where you got all of your information.

Word: Bibliophile 
Meaning: an individual with a huge passion for books
Example: Jason is a bibliophile who reads at least four books every day.

Word:  Bibulous 
Meaning: related to alcohol consumption
Example: After a bibulous night of barhopping; Gail wasn’t in a condition to drive home.

Word: Bicameral
Meaning: having two distinct compartments or chambers
Example: The legislative portion of the United Sates government is bicameral and consists of two bodies of lawmakers; senators and representatives.

Word: Bicentennial
Meaning: taking place every two hundred years 
Example: The bicentennial of the war marks two hundred years since the conflict.

Word: Bicker
Meaning: to argue about inconsequential or unimportant things
Example: Young children are more likely to bicker about things that really don’t matter; such as who gets to play with a certain toy or who gets to ride in the front seat of the car.

Word: Bid
Meaning: to put in an offer to buy something; especially at an auction
Example: At the auction; the dealer bid on several different vehicles that were for sale.

Word: Bidet
Meaning: a low oval basin used for washing one's genital
Example: The restroom had a toilet as well as a bidet that was used to clean oneself after using the bathroom.

Word: Biennial 
Meaning: taking place in two year intervals
Example: The biennial picnic is scheduled to be held in two years.

Word: Bier
Meaning: a frame on which a dead body or a coffin is carried before a funeral
Example: The funeral director placed the corpse on the bier and had the burial frame moved to the cemetery.

Word: Bifurcate
Meaning: divided or forked into two
Example: If citizens are worried about a government having too much power; a bifurcate government would allow one branch to check the other branch

Word: Big
Meaning: of considerable size; extent; or intensity
Example: Sometimes the world felt so big and she was just a tiny speck on the surface of the planet.

Word: Bigamy 
Meaning: the practice of having two spouses at the same time
Example: Alan was charged with bigamy after the police discovered he was married to two women.

Word: Bigly
Meaning: with great force; strongly
Example: Attacking bigly; David was able to defeat Goliath with a single shot.

Word: Bigot
Meaning: a person who is obstinately or intolerantly devoted to his or her own opinions and prejudices
Example: The bigot was a lonely old man who thought everyone was inferior to him.

Word: Bilateral 
Meaning: relating to both sides 
Example: When Angie learned about her family history of breast cancer; she decided to have both her breasts removed in a bilateral mastectomy.

Word: Bilingual
Meaning: having the ability to speak two languages
Example: Because Debra is a bilingual; she is often chosen to translate between English and Spanish speakers.

Word: Bilious
Meaning: annoyed; bad-tempered
Example: Our bilious neighbor is known for his bad attitude.

Word: Bilk
Meaning: defraud; cheat
Example: Because he has always been so anti-government; he constantly accuses the President and Congress of trying to bilk tax-payers out of their hard-earned cash.

Word: Bill of Rights
Meaning: the first ten amendments of the Constitution that guarantee the rights of the people of the United States
Example: The Bill of Rights was added to the U.S. Constitution to insure certain freedoms and rights to the citizens of America.

Word: Billet
Meaning: a private nonmilitary house where soldiers were assigned to lodge
Example: During the Second World War the building became a billet for soldiers.

Word: Billfold
Meaning: a wallet typically made of leather that is thin enough to fold on itself several times
Example: I prefer a billfold for my wallet; since it folds the bills inside of it for easy distribution when I have to pay someone in cash.

Word: Billingsgate
Meaning: harshly offensive and rude talking
Example: Due to the billingsgate coming from the mouth of the disrespectful student to his teacher; the boy was suspended for a few days.

Word: Billowing
Meaning: swelling out or bulging
Example: As soon as the window was opened; the billowing curtains announced a cool breeze that was much needed on a hot day.

Word: Bin
Meaning: a container that is used to store things
Example: The teacher stored glue; scissors; and other school supplies in a small bin.

Word: Binary
Meaning: associated with two elements or items
Example: In a game of chess; the results are binary; one winner and one loser.

Word: Bind
Meaning: to tie or fasten
Example: Family are the ties that bind us to our history and remind us where we come from.

Word: Binge watch
Meaning: to watch multiple episodes of a television show back to back
Example: The lonely woman stays up all night and will binge watch episodes of the interesting series to pass the time.

Word: Binge
Meaning: a short period of excessive consumption
Example: If I continue to binge on junk food I will become obese.

Word: Biodegradable
Meaning: having the ability to decompose organically without leaving an imprint on its surroundings
Example: We avoid using foam plates because they aren’t biodegradable and as such will remain at the dump for hundreds of years.

Word: Biodiversity
Meaning: refers to the level of variety in living creatures and plants within a particular area
Example: The biodiversity of this lake is extremely high; with several dozen species of fish and birds living in or near it.

Word: Biography
Meaning: a person’s life story as told by another person
Example: It took me years to shape the president’s life story into an engaging biography.

Word: Biology
Meaning: study of living matter
Example: In biology class; we studied the human body and how it works.

Word: Biomass
Meaning: plant life used as a source of energy or fuel
Example: The biomass that fuels the bus comes from processed vegetation.

Word: Biome
Meaning: a large naturally occurring community of flora and fauna occupying a major habitat; e.g.; forest or tundra
Example: The tundra biome consists of icy landscapes; heavily furred woodland animals; and cool to freezing temperatures.

Word: Biopsy
Meaning: the act of removing and examining cells; fluids; or tissue to identify medical conditions
Example: The doctor is going to perform a tissue biopsy to see if cancer is present in my lungs.

Word: Biosphere
Meaning: the combined regions of a planet that make it habitable and sustainable for living organisms
Example: Earth’s biosphere is made up of all living things; from the oceans to plants to the very atmosphere.

Word: Biotic
Meaning: associated with living creatures
Example: Any living part of an environment is a biotic element.

Word: Bipartisan
Meaning: relating to supporters of two unlike groups
Example: It will take a bipartisan effort to turn the bill into a law.

Word: Biped
Meaning: an animal that walks on two feet
Example: Because my cat has four feet and not two; it is definitely not a biped.

Word: Bipolar
Meaning: a mental health disorder causing severe mood swings 
Example: Bipolar moods may shift from depressed to manic and back to depressed again.

Word: Birch
Meaning: a slender and smooth tree that has a wood covering that is usually white
Example: The woman picked a bundle of thin switches from the birch tree to create a broom.

Word: Birdbath
Meaning: a small basin filled with water that birds can bathe in
Example: Inside the garden; a rainwater-filled basin served as a birdbath for the bluebirds.

Word: Birther
Meaning: a person who believes former President Barack Obama was not born in the United States and should have been disqualified from being president
Example: The birther is adamant that President Obama was born in Kenya and not the United States.

Word: Bisect 
Meaning: to separate into two even or nearly even sections
Example: With the skill of a surgeon; the chef will use a knife to bisect the pie into two equal slices.

Word: Bitten
Meaning: having been wounded when a person or animal’s teeth were pushed down into the skin
Example: After being bitten by a poisonous snake; the injured hiker was rushed to the hospital.

Word: Bitter end
Meaning: the end or conclusion of a very difficult situation
Example: As the battle came to the bitter end; people on both sides were upset by all of the destruction.

Word: Bitter
Meaning: agitated; disgruntled; or angry about something
Example: My wife was bitter towards me after she found out that I had been hanging around an old girlfriend from school; even though we didn’t do anything.

Word: Bittersweet
Meaning: something that offers both joy and pain or the tastes of sweet and bitter together
Example: Saying goodbye to my husband was such a bittersweet experience for me.

Word: Bivouac
Meaning: a makeshift shelter that is generally used only for a night
Example: When the storm started; the soldier built a bivouac for shelter.

Word: Biweekly
Meaning: once every two weeks
Example: Being paid biweekly means that I have to manage my paycheck wisely for two weeks.

Word: Bizarre 
Meaning: highly unusual
Example: Everyone stared at the student who wore the bizarre outfit to school.

Word: Blab
Meaning: to talk or gossip too much
Example: At recess; the mouthy students continued to blab about why they hated their teacher.

Word: Black
Meaning: of the darkest color; like coal or the sky at midnight
Example: As the fire raged on; black clouds of smoke made the white clouds look dark.

Word: Blacklist
Meaning: to put a person or company’s name on a list of things that are not acceptable and should be boycotted
Example: The producer threatened to blacklist the actor and stop him from ever working in Hollywood again.

Word: Blackmail
Meaning: to extort money from another by means of intimidation to not release damaging information
Example: The strange man tried to blackmail the clerk into helping him draw the money; but he failed.

Word: Blade
Meaning: the flat edge of a knife; saw; or a weapon
Example: Using the blade of the knife; the mailman was able to slice the tape holding the box together.

Word: Blame
Meaning: to assign fault or responsibility
Example: Although I no longer blame my father for my parent’s divorce; my mother is still holding a grudge.

Word: Blameless
Meaning: free of blame or innocent of wrongdoing
Example: Many blameless individuals have been wrongly imprisoned or punished due to an improper trial or coincidental evidence.

Word: Blanch
Meaning: to grow fairer or paler as a result of fright or amazement
Example: The snake’s presence made the normally dark Gail blanch in fear.

Word: Bland
Meaning: wanting in quality; taste; or seasonings 
Example: The bland salad will taste better if you add salt and pepper to it.

Word: Blandish
Meaning: to persuade or influence someone by using flattery
Example: Because he wanted to go to the game so badly; Joe tried to blandish his mother by complimenting her hair.

Word: Blandishment
Meaning: the use of flattery (sweet-talk) and enticements to persuade somebody gently to do something
Example: Even though the salesman produced every blandishment he could think of from his bag of tricks; his prospect wouldn’t be budged by his flattery.

Word: Blaring
Meaning: to make or cause sound to play loudly
Example: With siren blaring; the fire truck raced off noisily into the night

Word: Blase
Meaning: indifferent because of frequent exposure
Example: After going on eight cruises; I am blasé about the whole cruising experience.

Word: Blasphemy
Meaning: great disrespect shown to God or something holy
Example: My grandmother is very religious and will kick you out of her house if you display blasphemy in any form.

Word: Blast
Meaning: an explosion
Example: Each blast of dynamite seemed to rock and shake the city to its core.

Word: Blatant
Meaning: completely obvious; especially in an offensive manner
Example: When the judge heard the defendant’s blatant lie; he became very angry.

Word: Blather
Meaning: to ramble on for a long period of time
Example: I didn’t want to listen to my teacher blather on about his sister’s wedding in math class.

Word: Blatherskite
Meaning: a person who constantly talks; usually about nothing important
Example: My aunt is a blatherskite who talks constantly.

Word: Blaze
Meaning: a fire that is burning intensely
Example: Last night firefighters worked tirelessly to control the blaze that consumed the old train station.

Word: Blazon
Meaning: to exhibit in a vivid manner
Example: To blazon his wealth; the king wore a crown adorned with hundreds of jewels.

Word: Bleak 
Meaning: devoid of enthusiasm or life
Example: At the funeral; the widow looked bleak and lost.

Word: Bleary
Meaning: blurred eyes from being tired; upset; or as a result of old age
Example: She wiped the sleep from her bleary eyes and yawned.

Word: Blemish
Meaning: a small flaw or imperfection that ruins the appearance of something
Example: Oliver was worried that the small blemish on the tip of his nose would stand out in the wedding photographs.

Word: Blend
Meaning: a mixture of two or more things
Example: I plan on breaking up with my girlfriend because our views on important issues do not blend well together.

Word: Bless
Meaning: to express gratitude or thank someone
Example: The old woman that I helped across the street said ‘bless you for your kindness’ as a means of gratitude.

Word: Blessed
Meaning: to have made something holy
Example: The newlywed’s marriage was blessed by the local pastor as a holy union.

Word: Blest
Meaning: an archaic term meaning blessed and made holy
Example: The priest came to the house and blest the family; ridding it from anything unholy.

Word: Blight
Meaning: 
Example: I was looking forward to bushels of fresh; home-grown tomatoes; but a blight killed all my plants just before they became ripe.

Word: Blimp
Meaning: an large; balloon-shaped aircraft with no wings that stays afloat by pressure from contained gas
Example: The Goodyear blimp flew slowly about the football stadium and advertised for the company on its balloon-shaped body.

Word: Blind
Meaning: not able to see or failing to understand
Example: Jack’s eyesight continued to get worse; making him fear that he would go blind.

Word: Blindly
Meaning: doing something in an unaware manner; without thinking about the conditions or without protest
Example: Molly blindly trusted the smooth-talking car salesman since she really wanted the car to run well even though the engine’s noise was loud.

Word: Blip
Meaning: an unexpected and minor deviation from the norm
Example: We usually ride to school with our mom; but there was a blip in the routine the day we had to take the bus instead.

Word: Bliss
Meaning: total happiness
Example: People who suffer from severe depression rarely experience days of bliss.

Word: Blissful
Meaning: extremely happy; full of joy
Example: The couple was very blissful on their wedding day.

Word: Blister
Meaning: a raised place or bubble on the skin or the surface of an object
Example: After walking in uncomfortable shoes all day; Tia felt a small blister rising up on her foot.

Word: Blithe
Meaning: carefree and unconcerned
Example: The rebellious teenager was blithe about her failing grades.

Word: Blithesome
Meaning: cheerful and lighthearted
Example: The magician practices blithesome magic that is lighthearted enough to make almost anyone smile.

Word: Blitz
Meaning: a sudden or intensive effort; often referring to a military attack
Example: The blitz bombing caught their adversaries by surprise; allowing them to win the war.

Word: Blitzkrieg
Meaning: a ruthless attack designed to quickly defeat or stun another
Example: Although the Japanese might have planned dropping bombs on Pearl Harbor as a blitzkrieg attack; the United States did not surrender.

Word: Blizzard
Meaning: a severe snowstorm with strong winds and reduced visibility
Example: The weather forecaster upgraded the simple snow showers to a blizzard due to expectant high 40 mph winds and at least 12 feet of snow.

Word: Bloat
Meaning: to make or become swollen with fluid
Example: Eating too much salt causes the patient’s legs and feet to bloat to 2x their original size.

Word: Bloated
Meaning: swollen with fluid
Example: The puppy’s belly seems bloated; but we aren’t sure if it is extra fluid or puppies.

Word: Blob
Meaning: thick or sticky liquid is a small; often round
Example: A blob of snot hung down from the sick toddler’s wet nose.

Word: Bloc
Meaning: an alliance of countries or people that work together for a goal
Example: A powerful military bloc was formed between the three countries to stop their enemies from invading the alliance territory.

Word: Blockade
Meaning: something used to block access to a certain area
Example: The bank robbers used furniture as a blockade to prevent the police from quietly entering the building.

Word: Bloke
Meaning: slang term for a man
Example: I went to the club where this bloke was the doorman.

Word:  Blossom 
Meaning: to thrive or develop
Example: Your ice cream business will blossom during the summer months.

Word: Blot
Meaning: to dab at a spot or stain in order to remove it
Example: After dripping spaghetti sauce on her dress; the woman took a napkin and began to blot the stain.

Word: Bloviate
Meaning: to talk for a long time; typically about nothing important
Example: I hate talking to Ricky because he likes to bloviate so much in our conversations; going on for twenty minutes about anything and everything.

Word: Blow
Meaning: a setback or misfortune
Example: The loss of her job during layoffs came as huge blow to the seasoned employee.

Word: Bludgeon
Meaning: to strike over and over again with a weighty object 
Example: The witness saw the suspect bludgeon the victim with a baseball bat.

Word: Blueprint
Meaning: a design plan or a detailed technical drawing
Example: Because the blueprint seemed to be missing some details; the builders were concerned.

Word: Bluestocking
Meaning: an educated; intellectual woman who is interested in books and ideas usually refers to a specific group of women in the 18th century
Example: Elizabeth was a 18th century bluestocking who was much more interested in books than men.

Word: Bluff 
Meaning: to display a fake expression of power or control 
Example: Rick is a good poker player because he knows how to bluff.

Word: Blunder
Meaning: a clumsy or embarrassing mistake
Example: Because he was not paying close attention; the driver made a blunder by hitting a stop sign.

Word: Blunderbuss 
Meaning: an awkward individual
Example: Jared is a blunderbuss who cannot walk in a straight line even when he is sober.

Word: Blunt
Meaning: very direct in one's words; usually in a negative manner and in a rude way
Example: My aunt is quite blunt so it was no surprise when she gave her opinions on the unsightly décor.

Word: Blurry
Meaning: Not clear; crisp; or focused
Example: Due to the excessive rain; the windshield became a blurry screen that made it impossible to see through.

Word: Blush
Meaning: for a person’s face to redden in color due to awkwardness or shame
Example: As the teenager’s friends would tease him about his love interest; he would blush with embarrassment.

Word: Blustery
Meaning: blowing in loud and abrupt bursts
Example: During the blizzard; the blustery wind echoed eerily throughout the house.

Word: Board
Meaning: a panel or plank
Example: A wooden board was placed across each window to keep neighborhood hooligans from breaking the windows out.

Word: Boast
Meaning: brag
Example: I didn’t want to boast; but I did exceptionally well on my college entrance exam.

Word: Boastful
Meaning: bragging
Example: No one liked my rich friend’s boastful attitude about his money.

Word: Bobble
Meaning: to move about up and down or side to side in a jerky motion
Example: The fisherman’s string began to bobble up and down; letting him know that a fish was on the line.

Word: Bodacious
Meaning: extraordinary or amazing
Example: Surfers will frequently ride the most bodacious wave that is over 20 feet tall without wiping out.

Word: Bode
Meaning: being a predictor of a specific result or outcome
Example: The harsh reviews do not bode kindly on the playwright’s latest stage production.

Word: Bodice
Meaning: the part of a woman’s dress that is above the waist; but doesn’t include the sleeves
Example: The dress’s bodice needs to be taken in since its wearer has lost weight in her top half over the last few months.

Word: Bog
Meaning: similar to a swamp but it is a collection of large stagnant water that is usually located on a higher level than what is around it
Example: Scientists put on their wading boots so that they could march up the incline to test the plant life in the bog.

Word: Boggle
Meaning: to baffle or confuse someone’s mind
Example: Difficult math equations and tricky logic questions were enough to boggle the minds of the students.

Word: Bogus
Meaning: not real; fake
Example: The jewelry store owner was arrested for selling bogus diamonds as genuine gems.

Word: Bohemian
Meaning: 
Example: Elizabeth was quite nervous to introduce her boyfriend dressed in bohemian clothing to her grandmother.

Word: Boisterous
Meaning: Noisy; energetic; and rowdy
Example: Your boisterous actions at church cannot be tolerated.

Word: Bold
Meaning: courageous; not afraid
Example: Because I was bold; my friends pushed me into the haunted house ahead of them.

Word: Boldness
Meaning: being courageous or daring
Example: Attempting to answer every question in front of his snickering peers even though the teenage boy was wrong some of the time revealed his boldness to the class.

Word: Bolster
Meaning: to make something stronger or bolder
Example: Free tickets were given away to bolster attendance at the game.

Word: Bombard 
Meaning: to attack continually; either physically or verbally
Example: When people discover you won the big lottery; they’re going to bombard you with requests for money.

Word: Bombastic
Meaning: one who is full of himself; a self absorbed person; giving oneself high self-esteem or exaggerated dignity 
Example: Because he is a bit too bombastic for me; I will not be voting for that politician again!

Word: Bombinate
Meaning: to make a buzzing or humming noise
Example: After the maid plugged in the vacuum cleaner; it began to bombinate loudly.

Word: Bon mot
Meaning: a clever or witty remark
Example: Elise laughed at her husband’s bon mot as she did all of his clever jokes.

Word: Bon Voyage
Meaning: a phrase used to wish a traveler a pleasant journey
Example: “Bon voyage;” Elizabeth called as her neighbor’s bored the ship for America.

Word: Bona Fide
Meaning: real or done honestly
Example: The jeweler stated the large diamond was bona fide and valuable.

Word:  Bonanza 
Meaning: a large amount of a thing that is viewed as desirable
Example: Once I was a lonely girl; but social media has changed that by providing me with a bonanza of friends.

Word: Bond
Meaning: to attach or stick
Example: In order for the wooden planks to bond to the subflooring; a strong adhesive designed for sturdy wood would have to be applied to each plank.

Word: Bondage 
Meaning: the condition of being restrained
Example: The prisoner’s bondage will prevent him from attacking people in court.

Word: Bonhomie
Meaning: friendliness; a pleasant; good-natured manner
Example: The life-long friends experienced a sense of bonhomie whenever they got together.

Word: Bonkers
Meaning: crazy; insane
Example: Even though she acts bonkers on the television show; the skilled actress isn’t crazy in real life.

Word: Bonnet
Meaning: a woman's or child's hat tied under the chin; typically with a brim framing the face
Example: The young mother placed the bonnet on her daughter’s head and tied the ribbon beneath her chin.

Word: Bonus
Meaning: something extra or more that is added
Example: When Christmas arrives; you will receive a large cash bonus for all your hard work.

Word: Book
Meaning: to reserve or purchase something ahead of time
Example: The manager tried to book a meeting room at the office building; but none were empty.

Word: Bookkeeping
Meaning: the recording of financial transactions on a daily basis
Example: Only one accountant is responsible for the bookkeeping while the other deal with other financial transactions.

Word: Booklore
Meaning: knowledge gained from reading books
Example: Because he is an avid reader; the boy’s head is filled with imaginative booklore.

Word: Bookworm
Meaning: someone who spends an inordinate amount of time studying or reading
Example: Hermione Granger is a bookworm who would much rather spend her time in the library reading than socializing.

Word: Boom
Meaning: a sound that is loud and deep
Example: A loud boom could be heard across the city as the thunderstorm raged on throughout the evening.

Word: Boomerang
Meaning: (of a plan) to backfire or reverse with negative consequences
Example: Freda warned her husband that his shady business deals could boomerang back and cost him a lot of money.

Word: Boon
Meaning: a benefit or blessing for which one should be grateful
Example: The donation from the billionaire was a nice boon for the homeless charity.

Word: Boondoggle
Meaning: a simple craft-like creation usually made by a pioneer or outdoorsy person
Example: The troop leader had his scouts make a boondoggle with the yarn and plastic loops in order to be used as a keychain.

Word: Boor
Meaning: an insensitive or inconsiderate individual
Example: Jack was such a boor he would not even hold a door for his mother.

Word: Boorish
Meaning:  bad-mannered; rude; or insensitive
Example: The comedian’s jokes were so vulgar and boorish that the only ones left in the audience were those who were too drunk to be offended.

Word: Boost
Meaning: to help; stimulate; or encourage something to improve
Example: My kind words encouraged my sister to continue doing her best; and that boost really helped her improve.

Word: Boozy
Meaning: intoxicated; drunk from consuming alcohol
Example: Boozy from the beer; the barfly stumbled around the bar asking everyone to buy him another round.

Word: Border
Meaning: the outer edge of something 
Example: A square picture is mounted on a larger rectangular sheet of paper leaving a border around the picture.

Word: Bore
Meaning: a person or thing that is dull and wearisome
Example: My teacher is such a bore she puts most of the class to sleep.

Word: Bored
Meaning: having nothing of interest to do
Example: Because he was so bored and had nothing to do; Jeff ended up falling asleep on the couch.

Word: Boredom
Meaning: the state of feeling dull and uninterested because you have nothing to do
Example: With nothing to do in the summer; the kids were suffering from boredom.

Word: Borked
Meaning: to obstruct someone from achieving a position of political power through defamation
Example: The would-be senator was borked by his rival when the latter dug up some unflattering evidence of a not so honorable past.

Word: Borne
Meaning: carried or spread by
Example: The illness was borne through undercooked food.

Word: Borough
Meaning: a town that has its own government
Example: Bronx and Manhattan are both a part of New York City; but each is also an independent borough.

Word: Borrow
Meaning: to receive something temporarily 
Example: Can I borrow your car for the weekend? I promise to return it Sunday night.

Word: Bossy
Meaning: characteristic of a person who prefers to be in charge and give orders
Example: Monica’s sister was always so bossy and telling her what to do.

Word: Botanical
Meaning: related to plants
Example: Botanical gardens; full of beautiful flowers and plants; surrounded the zoo.

Word: Botany
Meaning: the scientific study of plants
Example: Studying botany was a way for George Washington Carver to enjoy doing what he loved while figuring out ways to help the world through peanut plants.

Word: Botch
Meaning: to mess up or ruin
Example: You will botch the recipe if you leave the chicken in the marinade for too long.

Word: Bothersome
Meaning: causing bother or irritability
Example: Living close to the airport; the constant aircraft noise is particularly bothersome when I'm trying to sleep.

Word: Bottleneck
Meaning: a point where something large is forced into a narrower space
Example: In a bottle of water; there is a literal bottleneck at the top where the large space of the bottle narrows to fit someone’s mouth.

Word: Bottomless
Meaning: limitless; having an unlimited supply
Example: The waitress brought a bottomless supply of chips and salsa to our table all night long.

Word: Bough
Meaning: a large tree branch
Example: Mulberries sprouted in each direction off of the main bough of the tree.

Word: Bought
Meaning: purchased
Example: The customer bought several different beauty products from the department store; but the concealer was by far her favorite purchase.

Word: Boulder
Meaning: a large rock typically made smooth by erosion
Example: A large boulder fell from the cliffs above during the storm; blocking the road with its smooth surface.

Word: Bounce
Meaning: to move quickly up and down 
Example: My children aren’t allowed to bounce on the bed when they play in their room.

Word: Bound
Meaning: tied up
Example: As the robber bound his hands together; the store clerk prayed that he would only be tied up and not killed.

Word: Boundary
Meaning: a line that marks the limits of an area 
Example: The boundary between North and South Korea is marked by a barrier that functions as a demilitarized zone.

Word: Boundless
Meaning: unlimited; endless
Example: Technological advances seem boundless as we continue to invent new; high-tech devices every day.

Word: Bounteous
Meaning: ample; lavish
Example: The bounteous buffet could probably feed thousands of people.

Word: Bountiful
Meaning: having a generous amount 
Example: Since we had a bountiful harvest this year; we were able to donate a good portion of our crops to a local soup kitchen.

Word: Bounty
Meaning: an abundance
Example: A bounty of sheep filled the field; causing the entire area to look white like snow.

Word: Bouquet
Meaning: a creative arrangement of flowers 
Example: Our local florist created a lovely bridal bouquet of red and white flowers for my daughter’s wedding.

Word: Bourgeois
Meaning: characteristic of the social middle class or relating to one who likes to put on airs 
Example: After surviving the plane crash; Eric gave up his bourgeois life and joined the priesthood.

Word: Bout
Meaning: a period of something; usually painful or unpleasant
Example: After missing four days of school due to a bout of flu; Emily struggled to make up her missing work.

Word: Boutique
Meaning: a small store that sells fashionable items
Example: The boutique specializes in plus size clothing and caters to women with curvier figures.

Word: Bovine 
Meaning: uninteresting and sluggish 
Example: When my daughter does not want to do something; she always completes the task in a bovine manner.

Word: Bow
Meaning: a looped knot that is tied into something
Example: The small girl was taught how to make a two-looped bow out of her shoestring.

Word: Bowdlerize
Meaning: to delete or change the parts of a text that are viewed as offensive
Example: If you do not want to offend your teacher with that profane language; you should bowdlerize the story before handing it in for a grade.

Word: Boycott
Meaning: 
Example: A group of Hispanic men are holding a boycott by refusing to work in establishments that will not pay them legal wages.

Word: Boyhood
Meaning: the state or period of being a boy
Example: The man was going to buy his boyhood home so he could recapture his childhood memories.

Word: Bracken
Meaning: any of several coarse ferns
Example: The leaves of the western bracken fern are normally 1 to 10 feet long.

Word: Bracket
Meaning: a category or group that people or things are placed in
Example: Only teams were left in the lower bracket and had to face off for the division championship.

Word: Brackish
Meaning: unappealing in taste
Example: Since the water on the island tasted brackish; I decided not to drink it.

Word: Brackish
Meaning: slightly salty
Example: The diner complained that his meal was too brackish to consume.

Word: Brag
Meaning: boastful talk 
Example: Kevin would often brag about his many girlfriends when he was in the company of friends.

Word: Braggadocio 
Meaning: the boasting or bragging about something that is not true
Example: The bully’s braggadocio allowed him to hide his low self-esteem.

Word: Braggart 
Meaning: an individual who brags a great deal
Example: My rich uncle is a braggart who constantly boasts about his possessions.

Word: Braille
Meaning: a writing system consisting of raised dots used to help people who are blind read material
Example: Running her fingers along the raised dots; the blind woman read the book written in braille.

Word: Brainstorm
Meaning: the pondering of ideas by one or more individuals as a way to come up with a plan or solution to a problem
Example: Writers often brainstorm ideas for their stories before actually beginning to draft their books.

Word: Brandish
Meaning: to gesture while holding a weapon or other item as a threat
Example: When the crazed man decided to brandish a gun in the airport; he was immediately shot by a security guard.

Word: Brash
Meaning: assertive in an aggressive way that often comes across as unpleasant
Example: Because Anna is so brash at work; she often offends people with her aggressive personality.

Word: Brashness
Meaning: bold assertiveness
Example: The aggressive racecar driver is known for his brashness when zooming down the track.

Word: Brassy
Meaning: looking like brass
Example: The brassy jewelry shined with a golden twinkle in the sunlight.

Word: Bravado
Meaning: a show of defiance or courage
Example: Compared to the other contestants on the reality show; Monica wasn’t able to adopt a show of bravado and eat the bowl of squirming insects.

Word: Brave
Meaning: courageous; willing to take action
Example: The brave woman served as a spy in the army; putting herself at risk while helping her country.

Word: Bravery
Meaning: courage; coldness
Example: Demonstrating bravery and courage; the private prepared to engage in battle with the enemy.

Word: Breadth
Meaning: the extent or measure of how broad or wide something is
Example: The gossip quickly spanned the breadth of the school building.

Word: Break down
Meaning: the act of taking something apart to make it smaller and easier to transport of put away
Example: A team of workers began to break down the movie set for the next scene.

Word: Breakthrough
Meaning: a sudden discovery or overcoming of an obstacle
Example: A medical breakthrough suddenly allowed doctors to cure a disease that once killed thousands of people.

Word: Breath
Meaning: the air that you take in or send out of your lungs
Example: After a ten mile trek; the exhausted hiker was panting and out of breath.

Word: Breathe
Meaning: the intake and release of air
Example: Because we cannot breathe under water; swimmers can only stay under for a short amount of time.

Word: Breathless
Meaning: panting or gasping for breath
Example: On the other end of the phone; Phyllis heard a breathless voice gasping as it spoke.

Word: Breathtaking
Meaning: something so dazzling it leaves you speechless or unable to move
Example: Aphrodite was a breathtaking goddess whose beauty stunned men into silence.

Word: Breed
Meaning: a class of animals within a species that have similar physical characteristics
Example: My dog is part of a very small breed that originated in Spain.

Word: Breeze
Meaning: gentle; blowing wind
Example: Rocking back and forth; the hammock was moved by a gentle breeze.

Word: Brethren
Meaning: the body of members; especially of a fraternal; religious or military order
Example: Exhausted by the days’ events; the brethren trudged towards the enemy ready to fight until the bitter end.

Word: Brevity
Meaning: the quality of expressing something in very few words; briefness
Example: I hope the minister exercises brevity in his sermon today.

Word: Brew
Meaning: to prepare a hot drink
Example: At Starbucks; the employees brew a wide range of coffees and teas for their customers.

Word: Bribe
Meaning: money or something valuable given to tempt someone to do what you want
Example: When we went grocery store shopping; Mom would bribe me to behave by giving me candy.

Word: Bridal
Meaning: Relating to a woman who is getting married (a bride)
Example: The woman’s bridal dress was too tight for her wedding day and had to be let out by a seamstress.

Word: Bridle
Meaning: the strap located around the head and neck of a horse that the rider holds onto
Example: With the bridle attached to the reins; the girl tugged the reins pulling the horse’s head to its chest.

Word: Briefly
Meaning: for a moment
Example: The instructor briefly summarized the previous lesson before moving on to the next chapter.

Word: Brigand 
Meaning: a thief or fugitive
Example: When the brigand climbed through the broken window; he cut his wrist on the glass.

Word: Bright
Meaning: shining or giving off a lot of light
Example: Letting off bright light; the sun beamed down on the sweaty construction workers.

Word: Bright
Meaning: very smart; intelligent
Example: The bright child is much smarter than the other children in her classroom.

Word: Brilliance
Meaning: exceptional intelligence or talent
Example: The genius’s brilliance allowed him to come up with some life-changing surgical techniques.

Word: Brilliant
Meaning: very wise or skilled
Example: The only thing that seemed to anger the teacher was when a student with a brilliant mind would waste it by refusing to work.

Word: Brimming
Meaning: fill or be full to the point of overflowing
Example: Her eyes were brimming with so many tears that they threatened to overflow.

Word: Brink
Meaning: the very edge or border
Example: A few years ago; the economy was on the brink of collapse due to inflation and several other factors.

Word: Brinkmanship
Meaning: the habit of following a path to the point of danger before turning back or stopping; normally seen in political affairs 
Example: The Asian dictator is caught up in his brinksmanship and insists on making nuclear threats.

Word: Brisk
Meaning: very active and quick
Example: My grandmother’s exercise regime is to walk the mall at a brisk pace.

Word: Bristle
Meaning: to display indications of being angry
Example: An honest man will bristle at the suggestion of taking something that doesn’t belong to him.

Word: Brittle
Meaning: easy to break
Example: Margaret uses tons of products to stop her brittle hair from breaking.

Word: Broach
Meaning: to mention a topic for debate or discussion
Example: Candace was afraid to broach the subject of divorce to her abusive husband.

Word: Broad
Meaning: wide in extent or scope 
Example: There was broad agreement on the issue of equal pay for women.

Word: Broadcast
Meaning: a radio or television program
Example: My favorite broadcast usually comes on at eight; but to my dismay; it was replaced by a special program tonight.

Word: Broaden
Meaning: to widen or become larger
Example: The road crew is working to broaden the roadway so that more cars can drive through at one time.

Word: Brobdingnagian
Meaning: gigantic; huge
Example: The brobdingnagian hamburger was so large that it would not fit inside my mouth for a bite.

Word: Brocade
Meaning: a thick patterned material sometimes made with gold coloring
Example: Making my dress from brocade may cause discomfort for me since it will feel so weighted down as I walk.

Word: Brochure
Meaning: a folded page or couple of pages created to inform or promote something that usually contains text and/or pictures
Example: While at the doctor’s office; Dr. Murphy handed me a brochure to read so that I would know how to handle and maintain my fibromyalgia.

Word: Broil
Meaning: to cook with strong; direct heat
Example: We had a bonfire and decided to broil the marshmallows for s’mores.

Word: Broken
Meaning: fragmented; in separate pieces 
Example: The broken plate lay in pieces on the floor.

Word: Broker
Meaning: a person who buys and sells assets for others
Example: The mortgage broker was able to negotiate a favorable loan for the potential buyers.

Word: Bronze
Meaning: mixture of metal and tin that is yellowish brown
Example: The penny is the only bronze colored coined regularly used in the US.

Word: Brood
Meaning: the offspring or youngsters in a household unit 
Example: Because my wife is pregnant; our brood will be increasing in February.

Word: Brooding
Meaning: appearing to worry about something
Example: When my father is quiet and in a brooding mood; it is best not to disturb him.

Word: Brook
Meaning: a body of running water smaller than a river; a small stream
Example: Oscar and I prefer to fish at the quiet brook because it is less crowded than the beach.

Word: Brotherhood
Meaning: a friendship bond between two men or a group of men
Example: A bond of brotherhood held the soldiers together even after they left the military.

Word: Brought
Meaning: transported; carried
Example: Most immigrants arriving on Ellis Island only brought the clothes on their backs and few necessities.

Word: Brouhaha
Meaning: an uproar about something insignificant
Example: My sister; the drama queen; made a huge brouhaha over her broken nail.

Word: Browbeat
Meaning: to bully in an intimidating way
Example: The con man browbeat James into giving him the keys to the vault.

Word: Browse
Meaning: to casually look at something; usually when reading or considering a purchase
Example: My mother likes to shop for shoes in town; while I prefer to browse online.

Word: Bruise
Meaning: a blue and black mark on the skin that is an injury
Example: After falling down the wooden stairs; the boy had a noticeable dark bruise on his leg when it hit one of the railings.

Word: Bruit
Meaning: a report or a rumor
Example: The soldier delivered a bruit to his commander; detailing the events of the mission his soldiers had been dispatched on.

Word: Brunt
Meaning: the most unpleasant part of something
Example: As the task manager; my husband will bear the brunt of the client’s anger when the project is not finished on time.

Word: Brusque
Meaning: blunt in manner or speech to the point of harshness
Example: What did I do to make you so brusque with me?

Word: Brutal
Meaning: violently cruel and inhumane
Example: A rise in violent and brutal crimes is plaguing the once peaceful city.

Word: Brutality
Meaning: the act of causing or executing cruelty to someone or something
Example: The ASPCA joined forces with the local police to stop the brutality imposed on innocent dogs run by an abusive and neglectful owner of a puppy mill.

Word: Brute
Meaning: a bully or mean person
Example: Acting as a brute; everyone avoided him at work so they wouldn’t hear his cruel words.

Word: Brutish
Meaning: cruel
Example: Brutish by nature; the dictator even treated his own family members cruelly.

Word: Bubbly
Meaning: describes a person who is cheerful and animated in personality
Example: The bubbly cheerleader was able to hype the crowd into a victory cheer.

Word: Bucolic
Meaning: relating to the countryside
Example: The postcard image was beautiful and featured a bucolic white house in a dark green pasture.

Word: Buddhism
Meaning: a religion based on Gautama Buddha’s teachings that suffering is a part of life but can be ended through spiritual development
Example: The founder of Buddhism renounced his title as a prince and spent his life developing his spiritual core.

Word: Budding
Meaning: becoming larger as part of a natural growing process
Example: The tree’s branches are slowly budding; growing ever larger as the tree gets older and older.

Word: Budge
Meaning: move; shift
Example: Try as she might; the trapped hiker could not budge the boulder off of her foot.

Word: Budget
Meaning: inexpensive; cheap
Example: Staying in a budget hotel came with a price; mainly in the form of smelly sheets and cockroaches.

Word: Buffer
Meaning: a person or thing that protects somebody or something from being harmed by another
Example: The wine glasses came with a cardboard around them to buffer any shock from shipping.

Word: Buffet
Meaning: food laid out in this way; to which diners serve themselves
Example: We enforce a policy that diners may return to the buffet up to three times to refill their plates.

Word: Buffeted
Meaning: afflicted/harmed over and over for a long period of time
Example: The football team was buffeted over the season; being beaten by every single team they played.

Word: Buffoon
Meaning: a silly person who tries to be humorous but comes across as foolish
Example: Since you are making a buffoon of yourself; you should go sit quietly in a corner before you embarrass me further!

Word: Buffoonery
Meaning: silly behavior or habits 
Example: Jim got suspended because he failed to realize school was not the place to display a clown’s buffoonery.

Word: Bugle
Meaning: a small brass instrument that resembles a trumpet and is usually sounded before an announcement
Example: Each call from the brass bugle had a different meaning for the recruits who knew the signals well.

Word: Bulbous
Meaning: having the shape of or resembling a bulb; bloated
Example: The round; bulbous plants seemed to bloom on every corner of the street.

Word: Bulge
Meaning: a rounded bump or swelling that juts outward on a surface
Example: The bulge of the man’s muscle showed through his fitted t-shirt.

Word: Bulk
Meaning: the larger part of something
Example: The bulk of the leftover food will go to the food pantry; but some will have to be thrown away.

Word: Bulky
Meaning: large and heavily built or shaped
Example: The bulky package was much too large to be placed in the small mailbox.

Word: Bulletin
Meaning: a newsletter or memo that generally announces important information
Example: The community news bulletin listed garage sales; events; and other important information for the neighborhood.

Word: Bulwark
Meaning: an object that acts as a shield
Example: Vaccines act as a bulwark against many childhood diseases.

Word: Bumbling
Meaning: acting or moving about in a confused manner
Example: The drunk man was bumbling around the bar; knocking over tables and bumping into other patrons every few seconds.

Word: Bumfuzzle
Meaning: to confuse someone
Example: In an attempt to bumfuzzle his mother; Tony hid her keys in the microwave and pretended to know nothing about it.

Word: Bummer
Meaning: something that is disappointing
Example: Not getting the job was a bit of a bummer; but I’m hopeful that I will snag one soon.

Word: Bumptious 
Meaning: confident in an annoying manner
Example: While Rick is very intelligent; he would be more likable if he were not so bumptious about his educational background.

Word: Bundle
Meaning: a group of objects held together by wrapping or tying 
Example: Newspapers are delivered to stores in a bundle.

Word: Bundle
Meaning: a group of something tied or joined together
Example: Before they could start a fire; the campers had to pile up a bundle of sticks in the middle of the rocks.

Word: Bungalow
Meaning: a small; one-story house with a front porch and a low-pitched roof
Example: The couple slept in a small bungalow that was built on top of the clear Caribbean Sea.

Word: Bungle
Meaning: to clumsily perform a task
Example: Because the police department is comprised of idiots; it will probably bungle the simple case.

Word: Bunkum
Meaning: something that is foolish; ridiculous; and makes no sense
Example: The doomsday extremist spouted bunkum about how the world would end in seven days when the ozone layer spontaneously combusted.

Word: Buoy
Meaning: a float in water that is used to mark something
Example: To alert boaters of the hazard ahead; a small buoy was used to mark the sandbar near the surface.

Word: Buoyant
Meaning: joyful and self-assured
Example: With a great deal of confidence; the buoyant model strolled down the runway.

Word: Burden
Meaning: a heavy load
Example: Finding he had cancer; he tried to shoulder the burden alone and keep the news from his friends.

Word: Burden
Meaning: a problem or inconvenience 
Example: Babysitting for my neighbors had become a burden when they wanted me to work over 40 hours a week while going to school.

Word: Burdensome
Meaning: tough to fulfill or carry out
Example: After accepting several jobs; Lily realized it was burdensome for her to try to juggle all of those jobs.

Word: Bureau
Meaning: an agency or governmental department
Example: Although it is their job; officials at the labor bureau refuse to support worker rights.

Word: Bureaucracy
Meaning: a method of business or government in which red tape processes are used to delay action 
Example: The bureaucracy of the legislative government is delaying the passage of much needed educational funding.

Word: Bureaucratic 
Meaning: associated with a lengthy and tiresome process for performing a task
Example: Because of bureaucratic red tape; it will be months before I receive my passport.

Word: Burgeon
Meaning: to grow and expand rapidly
Example: As car prices go down; car dealers are expecting sales to burgeon.

Word: Burglar
Meaning: a robber or thief that enters a building illegally to steal
Example: The burglar isn’t known for stealing jewels or money; but hijacking hamburgers and french fries.

Word: Burglary
Meaning: illegal entry into a building or vehicle with the intention of stealing
Example: Because he had been convicted of burglary before; Nick was the prime suspect in this hotel break-in.

Word: Burial
Meaning: the act or ceremonial practice of placing something (usually a dead body) underground
Example: Before the burial ceremony; grave diggers dug out a space for the coffin.

Word: Burlap
Meaning: coarse; plain-woven fabric used for bagging; furniture; and rugs
Example: Burlap bags are being woven to hold potatoes and produce to be sold at the market.

Word: Burlesque
Meaning: a stage production or literary piece that uses excessive exaggeration or comedic imitation to ridicule something or someone
Example: The burlesque war film depicts our president as a kid playing with toy soldiers.

Word: Burly
Meaning: large; strong and heavy
Example: When he attempted an escape; a burly police officer had to forcefully restrain the suspect.

Word: Burnish
Meaning: to polish; to make smooth or shiny
Example: Richard is forever attempting to burnish his reputation so that he can advance his position within our company.

Word: Burnt
Meaning: seared; scorched
Example: My siblings think it is disgusting that I prefer my meat burnt and overcooked on the grill.

Word: Burrow
Meaning: to dig in order to make a hole or tunnel
Example: The rabbit tried to burrow himself down in the ground so that the fox wouldn’t catch him.

Word: Burst
Meaning: to explode suddenly
Example: Rocks falling down during the landslide burst apart; breaking into a million pieces.

Word: Bury
Meaning: to cover completely; typically with dirt or some other earthy substance as an act of hiding or putting to rest
Example: Dogs like to bury their bones and toys in the yard.

Word: Bushel
Meaning: a measure of capacity equal to 8 gallons; used for dry goods
Example: The bushel of oats would yield enough for many bowls of cereal.

Word: Busily
Meaning: hurriedly; in a very active way
Example: The servants hurried through the kitchen; busily preparing for the king’s feast.

Word: Business
Meaning: the activity of buying and selling goods and services; especially as one’s living
Example: When the real estate market crashed; the business of selling homes came to a creeping halt.

Word: Bust
Meaning: a sculpture or statue of a person’s head; shoulders; or chest
Example: The artist created the bust to show how beautiful the woman’s face was.

Word: Buster
Meaning: something used to break something else apart
Example: The laundry spray is a grease buster that can break up even the toughest stains.

Word: Bustle
Meaning: to move in a noisy or hurried manner 
Example: On Valentine’s Day men bustle about the store trying to find last minute gifts.

Word: Busybody
Meaning: a person who is always in other people’s business; meddling and starting trouble
Example: The busybody next door is always snooping on the neighbors and trying to figure out what they are doing.

Word: Buttress
Meaning: 
Example: For over two centuries; the U.S. Constitution has been a buttress for the government.

Word: Buxom 
Meaning: describing a full-figured female with an ample bosom
Example: Because Gail is a buxom woman; she has to custom order her bras.

Word: Buy
Meaning: obtain in exchange for payment
Example: She went to the mall to buy a new dress for her interview.

Word: Buzz
Meaning: a low hiss with a “z” sound
Example: At first I didn’t hear the buzz from the bees until I got closer to the bee hive around the corner.

Word: Buzzard
Meaning: a hawk-like bird of prey that soars high with wide wings and a round tail
Example: The buzzard circled around the dead deer carcass and zoomed in to snatch some of the meat with his talons.

Word: Buzzkill
Meaning: a person or thing that stops others from enjoying themselves
Example: Taylor’s constant talk about religion and other depressing subjects made him a total office buzzkill.

Word: By-product
Meaning: a secondary product or result that's produced in the making or doing of something else
Example: Dorothy was told that a by-product of her pregnancy was nausea and vomiting; but that it would subside after her first trimester.

Word: Bygone
Meaning: associated with an earlier period of time
Example: These days getting married before having a baby appears to be the concept of a bygone era.

Word: Bypass
Meaning: to go around something
Example: While driving home; I decided to bypass the construction work and take a different route.

Word: Bystander
Meaning: a person who is present during a situation or event but not directly involved
Example: A bystander witnessed the wreck and called the police to assist.

Word: Byzantine
Meaning: complex; hard to comprehend
Example: Because the plot was revealed in a byzantine manner; it was difficult to understand.

Word: Cabal
Meaning: a collection of people who come together to work against something or someone 
Example: Hundreds of workers formed a cabal to demonstrate their dissatisfaction with the firm’s healthcare plan.

Word: Cabalistic
Meaning: of or relating to a cabal; secretive and cliquish
Example: In earlier generations; cabalistic studies flourished in Eastern Europe; especially amongst the Hasidic Jewish population.

Word: Cabinet
Meaning: a cupboard with drawers or doors that are used to store household items
Example: All of the dishes should be washed and dried before being placed into the cabinet.

Word: Cable
Meaning: a thick rope or cord that usually has wire in the middle
Example: The television repairman ran a wired cable from the back of the television into the wall.

Word: Cache 
Meaning: a hidden supply of something
Example: In preparation of the drought; the farmer has stored a sizeable cache of water tanks.

Word: Cachet 
Meaning: the condition of having distinction or being admired or respected
Example: Being seen with the famous actress gave me cachet with the Hollywood media.

Word: Cachinnate
Meaning: the act of laughing; snorting; or physically putting all energy into laughter
Example: At one of the funniest parts of the film; the audience began to cachinnate with such force that guests in the other theaters could hear them.

Word: Cachinnation
Meaning: convulsive; loud laughter
Example: The evil witch continued her wild cachinnation as she pretended to be conversing with a funny demon.

Word: Cackle
Meaning: laugh resembling the cry of a hen or goose
Example: The comedian makes me laugh so hard I cackle like a witch!

Word: Cacoethes
Meaning: an uncontrollable urge or desire to do something inadvisable
Example: Kelsey had a cacoethes for pulling pranks at church.

Word: Cacography
Meaning: bad handwriting	
Example: Since your cacography is difficult to read; you should definitely type your essay.

Word: Cacology
Meaning: a bad choice of words or pronunciation
Example: In a classic case of cacology; the speaker said several words that didn’t make sense in context.

Word: Cacophony
Meaning: an unpleasant mixture of loud sounds
Example: Sometimes; it seems as though the dogs in our neighborhood bark together to create a cacophony that wakes me up every morning.

Word: Cadaver
Meaning: a lifeless body that is used for research
Example: In medical school; each student gets his own cadaver on which to practice.

Word: Cadaverous
Meaning: similar in appearance to a corpse; pale and skinny
Example: When I looked at the cadaverous cat who was dying of starvation; I couldn’t stop the tears from falling.

Word: Cadge
Meaning: to convince a person to give you something at no charge
Example: By flirting with the bartender; the pretty girl was able to cadge free drinks.

Word: Cadre
Meaning: a group people specially-trained people for a particular purpose or profession
Example: The late night comedian is very selective when it comes to choosing candidates to join his cadre of speechwriters.

Word: Caducity
Meaning: frail old age; senile
Example: His weak eyesight combined with his caducity puts him out of the workforce.

Word: Cagey
Meaning: uncommunicative; unwilling or hesitant to give information
Example: Coca Cola acted in a very cagey fashion when I attempted to find out the ingredients of their soft drinks.

Word: Cahoots
Meaning: secretly working together to commit crime or dishonest activity
Example: Jack and Barry were in cahoots when they conspired to shoot up the mall.

Word: Cajole
Meaning: persuade someone to do something; convince with gentle pleading; sweet-talk
Example: Why did I ever let my friends cajole me into eating sushi?

Word: Cajolery
Meaning: flattery and gentle pleading done on purpose to persuade someone to do something
Example: No amount of cajolery could convince Doris to hand us the keys to her car; so we took it for a ride without permission.

Word: Calamitous
Meaning: involving catastrophe
Example: A calamitous accident destroyed the driver’s chance of winning a major race.

Word: Calamity
Meaning: a situation that results in extreme suffering
Example: The approaching hurricane is sure to be a calamity that will affect the lives of millions.

Word: Calculated
Meaning: referring to an action committed with full awareness of its consequences
Example: When you weigh the pros and cons of an action before doing it; you are taking a calculated risk; with full understanding of the implications of your decision.

Word: Caldera
Meaning: a large; volcanic crater that is created after part of a volcano collapses
Example: The circular caldera is located at the summit of the volcano and is sunken in from the collapse.

Word: Caliber
Meaning: the worth of an individual’s character or his level of ability
Example: Only dancers of the highest caliber will be invited to perform for the president.

Word: Calibrate
Meaning: to quantify in a careful and detailed manner 
Example: The hospital pharmacist knows how important it is to calibrate the IV medications correctly.

Word: Caliphate 
Meaning: an Islamic territory directed by a religious and political director
Example: The Islamic leader is the person responsible for leading the people of the caliphate.

Word: Calisthenics
Meaning: simple exercises that are performed by people to stay fit but don’t require the use of equipment
Example: Doing jumping jacks is my least favorite part of my weekly calisthenics class.

Word: Call-out
Meaning: an occasion when someone is asked to come to a person’s home to do a job or help with a task
Example: The vet answered the call-out but charged the family a fortune to see their sick pet in their home.

Word: Call
Meaning: to cry out or summon someone
Example: Grandmother will call all the children inside when it’s time to eat breakfast.

Word: Calligraphy
Meaning: elegant handwriting that is often created with a particular kind of brush or pen
Example: My sloppy handwriting could never be confused with the refinement of calligraphy.

Word: Callipygian
Meaning: having attractive or shapely buttocks
Example: When it comes to physical attractiveness; many people prefer someone callipygian; rather than someone with too much flab on their rears.

Word: Callipygous
Meaning: having a proportionate and well-shaped rear end
Example: The callipygous girls in the videos were hired because of their shapely rear-ends.

Word: Callous
Meaning: showing or having an insensitive and cruel disregard for others
Example: There is so much crime in this country that many people have become callous about it and tend to look the other way.

Word: Callow
Meaning: immature; lacking in life experience
Example: Since the callow baker was new to cake decorating; she did not know how to properly frost the multi-layer cake.

Word: Calm
Meaning: relaxed and showing no feelings of anger or anxiousness
Example: A beach is a relaxing place that makes everyone who visits it feel calm.

Word: Calumniate
Meaning: to voice untrue accounts about an individual or group
Example: In an attempt to prevent the mayor’s reelection; someone has been using the Internet to calumniate the city leader’s family.

Word: Calumnious
Meaning: slanderous or defamatory
Example: The calumnious tabloid article painted a slanderous tale of two star crossed lovers.

Word: Calumny
Meaning: a false statement made to damage someone’s reputation
Example: The editor refused to publish the calumny that could possibly destroy the politician’s career.

Word: Camaraderie
Meaning: good friendship and trust among members of a group
Example: Because of the camaraderie they shared; the soldiers trusted each other with their lives.

Word: Cameo
Meaning: a tiny role in a film that is performed by a famous individual
Example: The actor’s cameo had him onscreen for less than two minutes.

Word: Camouflage
Meaning: a means or attempt to conceal something 
Example: The robbers wore large coats to camouflage their weapons from the security guards.

Word: Campaign
Meaning: a set of steps taken to achieve a certain goal
Example: Since we have not raised any money; it’s fair to say the fundraising campaign has not been a success.

Word: Canal
Meaning: an artificial waterway or channel
Example: Divers searched the canal for the missing vehicle they fear is deep-down in the channel.

Word: Canard
Meaning: a phony report or story
Example: The newspaper was sued for publishing a canard about a popular celebrity.

Word: Cancel
Meaning: to decide or announce that something planned in advance will no longer take place
Example: Because her husband wasn’t feeling well; Brenda decided to cancel their dinner reservations at the fancy restaurant.

Word: Cancer
Meaning: the disease caused by an uncontrolled division of abnormal cells in a part of the body
Example: Cancer forms when abnormal cells rapidly divide.

Word: Candid
Meaning: truthful and straightforward
Example: Because the politician made a candid speech; he earned the respect of the voters.

Word: Candidacy
Meaning: the state of being considered for a position
Example: Meeting all the qualifications for candidacy; the well-known business owner decided to run for mayor.

Word: Candidate
Meaning: someone being considered for a particular position
Example: Each candidate had to give a two-minute speech explaining why he or she should be class president.

Word: Candor
Meaning: the state or quality of being frank; open; and sincere in speech or expression
Example: Because the realtor was an honest woman; she replied with candor about the damage to the house.

Word: Cane
Meaning: a short stick or staff that people use to help them walk
Example: The elderly woman staggered to her mailbox; using the cane for balance.

Word: Canister
Meaning: a container with a lid that is used for keeping dry products
Example: The little girl reached into the cookie canister and grabbed several chocolate chip cookies from the jar.

Word: Canker
Meaning: a fungal disease of trees that causes damage to the bark
Example: When trees are under stress; they are more susceptible to canker and other fungal diseases.

Word: Cannon
Meaning: a large; mounted gun that is used to fire heavy projectiles
Example: Invented in China during the 12th century; the first cannon was used along with gunpowder as a weapon of war.

Word: Canny
Meaning: displaying good sense and judgment 
Example: The canny man would not buy the used car until it passed his mechanic’s inspection.

Word: Canonical
Meaning: following or according to the rules
Example: The canonical composer always made sure that his hymns fit in with the church’s regulations.

Word: Canonize
Meaning: to regard something as being of utmost importance or significance
Example: In religion; people tend to canonize the words of their most significant religious figure; holding them as holy and indisputable.

Word: Canopy
Meaning: a cover of some type that is used as a roof; either for decorative purposes or as shelter
Example: We’re going to install a canopy on our back porch so we can enjoy the outdoors on rainy days.

Word: Canorous
Meaning: pleasant sounding
Example: Belting out a canorous tune; the singer’s beautiful voice seemed to entrance everyone around.

Word: Cant
Meaning: the unique vocabulary used by a specific group of people
Example: The older woman did not understand the modern cant spoken by her grandchildren.

Word: Cantankerous
Meaning: easily angered; always complaining or arguing and difficult to get along with
Example: Since Congress is such a cantankerous group; no one expects them to pass any new legislation this year.

Word: Canto
Meaning: a section or stanza of a lengthy poem
Example: “Samuel; please read the next canto in the poem;” the teacher told the moaning student who would be reading for the next three pages.

Word: Canvas
Meaning: a type of hard; rough cloth used for making sails; tents; and as a surface to be painted on
Example: The artist was painting a canvas backdrop for the school play.

Word:  Canvass 
Meaning: to seek out support from people 
Example: Because my aunt is active in politics; she never fails to canvass her neighborhood in support of her favorite candidates.

Word: Canyon
Meaning: a deep gorge that usually has a river running through it
Example: The trail took the hikers down into a deep canyon with lush; green woods.

Word: Capability
Meaning: the power; skill; or ability to do something
Example: TJ has the capability to finish the race; but he will need to push himself to run faster.

Word: Capable
Meaning: able and competent
Example: The man in the wheelchair insisted that he was capable of taking care of himself.

Word: Capacious
Meaning: having the ability to hold a great amount
Example: When Janet bought a capacious home; she was finally able to use all the furniture she had been keeping in storage.

Word: Capacitate
Meaning: make someone capable of a particular action or legally competent to act in a particular way 
Example: Years of school capacitate the lawyer to give great legal defense to his client.

Word: Capacity
Meaning: the total amount an object can hold
Example: The water bottle’s capacity is thirty-two ounces.

Word: Caper
Meaning: a silly stunt or activity
Example: Grandpa Joe insisted he was too old for that type of caper and wouldn’t sing karaoke with us.

Word: Capillary
Meaning: associated with the tiny vessels of blood that link the arteries to the veins
Example: Whenever Jane has a nosebleed; she knows a capillary vessel has burst.

Word: Capital
Meaning: goods; monetary assets; and other things that can be used to produce income
Example: Your brain is the capital that will allow you to do well in school so you can obtain a profitable career.

Word: Capitalism 
Meaning: a monetary arrangement in which goods and services are owned by groups or individuals not associated with the government
Example: Under the system of capitalism; goods and services are created and distributed by private enterprises.

Word: Capitol
Meaning: a building in which the state or national legislature meets
Example: Senators met at the US Capitol building in Washington; D.C. to discuss new laws.

Word: Capitulate
Meaning: to give in; to surrender under certain terms
Example: After seeing himself on the news; the escaped convict decided to capitulate to avoid being shot by a police officer.

Word: Capitulation
Meaning: act of giving up or giving in
Example: After months of violence; the president’s troops were able to force capitulation from the exhausted rebels.

Word: Caprice
Meaning: an impulsive act
Example: Because John did not think before acting; he could spend the next ten years in prison for a silly caprice.

Word: Capricious
Meaning: sudden behavior change
Example: Because of his capricious nature; Jeremy found it hard to keep a steady job.

Word: Caption
Meaning: a title or short explanation under a picture in a book or magazine
Example: Below the picture of the bear; a caption gave both its scientific and common name.

Word:  Captious 
Meaning: always looking for faults; hard to please
Example: My captious father is never satisfied with anything I do.

Word: Captivate
Meaning: to catch and hold someone’s attention; mesmerize 
Example: The siren was able to captivate sailors with her enchanting voice.

Word: Captivating
Meaning: very interesting and capable of grabbing your attention
Example: Because a waterfall is so captivating; people can sit and watch it for hours.

Word: Captivity
Meaning: the state or period of being imprisoned; confined; or enslaved
Example: Protestors shouted that keeping the zoo animals in captivity violated their basic rights.

Word: Carafe
Meaning: a large pitcher or container used to hold a beverage or wine
Example: Since we were drinking glass after glass of the Dom Perignon; we decided to ask the waiter to leave the carafe of the wine at the table since we still wanted more.

Word: Carapace
Meaning: the outer shell of an arachnid; crustacean; or turtle
Example: Patterns on the turtle’s carapace are changing over time; with his shell becoming duller as he ages.

Word: Caravan
Meaning: a group of travelers; animals; or vehicles traveling together
Example: We decided to organize a caravan to attend the state championship.

Word: Caravansary
Meaning: a crowd of individuals travelling around together or an establishment where caravans rest overnight
Example: Our church group felt blessed when we found a caravansary that could shelter our large party overnight.

Word: Caravel
Meaning: a small sailing ship developed and used by the Portuguese and Spanish during 15th and 16th century exploration
Example: With its gently sloping bow and single stern castle; the caravel was easily distinguishable from other 15th century ships.

Word: Carbohydrate
Meaning: a sugar; starch; or cellulose that is a food source of energy for an animal or plant
Example: After stuffing my mouth with sugar; I was warned that increased carbohydrate levels can make my body sick.

Word: Carbon cycle
Meaning: an exchange of carbon in the Earth’s atmosphere
Example: After learning about the carbon cycle in science class; the students were able to analyze the carbon’s influence on the biosphere; hydrosphere and geosphere.

Word: Carcass
Meaning: the body of a dead person or animal
Example: On our cross country road trip; we passed a deer carcass on the road.

Word: Carcinogen
Meaning: a substance or agent that can cause cancer
Example: A known carcinogen that can be found in the liver has caused untold suffering all over the world.

Word: Cardiac
Meaning: relating to the heart
Example: Cardiac arrest; or a sudden stop of the heart; is caused by irregular electrical impulses that make the ventricles of the heart quiver instead of pumping blood.

Word: Cardinal
Meaning: fundamental; of the greatest importance
Example: The therapist addressed the cardinal rule of marriage which is to always compromise on issues and once that is accomplished everything else will fall into place.

Word: Cardiovascular
Meaning: relating to the heart and blood vessels
Example: High sodium levels are related to a heightened chance of cardiovascular related death since sodium negatively effects the heart and impedes blood flow.

Word: Careen
Meaning: to move swiftly in an uncontrollable manner; sometimes from one side to another side
Example: If you drive too fast in dangerous weather; your car may careen off the road.

Word: Career
Meaning: a job or occupation that a person does for an extended period
Example: I want to take on a career in teaching; but my parents insist that I become a doctor.

Word: Carefree
Meaning: easygoing and relaxed
Example: The carefree beach-bum skated through life without a worry or care.

Word: Carin
Meaning: man-made mound of stones; used as landmarks 
Example: Hikers were relieved to see a cairn of stones in the wilderness that led them in the correct direction on the trail.

Word: Carnage 
Meaning: that which is left after an extremely violent event such as a massacre
Example: The suicide bomber left immeasurable carnage in the mall.

Word: Carnal 
Meaning: associated with passions of the flesh or body
Example: Minors are not invited to the art exhibit because the paintings display carnal nudity.

Word: Carnality
Meaning: pertaining to physical or sexual desires
Example: Racy in nature; the lyrics of the song are lascivious and full of carnality.

Word: Carnival
Meaning: a seasonal or roaming fair which usually has many fun attractions
Example: As the carnival was being set up at the state park for this week; passersby could tell that a roller coaster and several spinning rides would be included.

Word: Carnivore
Meaning: any living creature that eats meat
Example: The tiger is a carnivore who kills his own food.

Word: Carouse
Meaning: to take part in a drunken get-together
Example: On most weekends the fraternity brothers carouse with the wild sorority girls.

Word: Carousel
Meaning: a circular carnival ride that has horses or cars that children sit on while it circulates
Example: Children laughed and giggled as the carousel went round and round.

Word: Carp
Meaning: to find fault or quarrel with someone constantly
Example: Edith’s husband decided to leave; saying that he couldn’t stand her tendency to carp and complain constantly.

Word: Carpe Diem
Meaning: an exclamation that urges individuals to seize the day with little concern of the future
Example: Carpe Diem is a Latin term that urges us to seize the day; rather than let anxiety and fear stop us from doing it.

Word: Carping
Meaning: having the tendency to complain or criticize
Example: My carping mother-in-law is constantly criticizing my housekeeping skills.

Word: Carpool
Meaning: a process in which multiple people ride in one person’s car to minimize travel cost
Example: Because Mr. Cooper has a minivan; we decided to carpool with him so we could save gas and only drive one car.

Word: Carriage
Meaning: a buggy-like means of transportation with four wheels which usually transports people and is pulled by horses
Example: With each clomp of the ponies’ hooves and swish of the wheels on the road; the passengers knew that this carriage would get them to their destination.

Word: Carrier
Meaning: someone who holds or has something
Example: Designated as the carrier of the manual; Kevin felt important to be a part of this club by being responsible for the club’s essential book.

Word: Carrion
Meaning: flesh of a deceased animal
Example: We could smell the carrion left by hunters even before we stumbled upon it during our trek up the mountain.

Word: Carry Out
Meaning: to do something
Example: I expect all of the men under my command to carry out my orders without dissent or hesitation; acting immediately and without remorse.

Word: Carte blanche
Meaning: freedom to do whatever one wants
Example: Looking at the destroyed fraternity house; it was obvious that giving the visiting students carte blanche was a gigantic mistake.

Word: Cartel
Meaning: group of businesses or nations that collude to fix prices
Example: Oil conglomerates run a cartel to keep prices high.

Word: Cartilage
Meaning: a strong but flexible material found in some parts of the body
Example: After being tackled by the opposing linebacker; the running back suffered from swelling cartilage around his rib.

Word: Cartographer
Meaning: an individual who specializes in the creation of maps
Example: Fortunately; the cartographer added a legend to his map to make it easier for people to understand.

Word: Cartography
Meaning: the science of producing maps 
Example: Since Greg was an expert in cartography; he quickly located the inaccuracy in the map.

Word: Carve
Meaning: to cut a material into a finished work
Example: Dustin used a hammer and chisel to carve out his name in the wood.

Word: Cascade
Meaning: something that occurs in rapid succession or in a series
Example: Once the vampire television show became a hit; a cascade of vampire programs appeared in the primetime lineup.

Word: Cash crop
Meaning: a crop produced to be sold; not to be used for personal use
Example: Marijuana is one of the leading cash crops in the U.S.; with millions of sales each year.

Word: Casino
Meaning: a place where a person goes to play games or gamble money
Example: Card dealers at the casino can get some of the big spenders to keep playing even after they’ve lost several thousand dollars.

Word: Cast
Meaning: actors who perform a role in a series; play; or movie
Example: The cast of a new television show was excited to receive their first Emmy award.

Word: Caste
Meaning: a class hierarchy determined by a person’s heritage
Example: In the tribe; there is a caste system based on skin color with the darker-skinned people comprising the lower class.

Word: Castigate
Meaning: to criticize someone or something severely
Example: My mother was a cruel woman who never missed an opportunity to castigate my father.

Word: Casual
Meaning: relaxed; easygoing; and informal
Example: Tyrone dresses in a casual way to work; despite the fact that everyone else in the company wears a suit and tie.

Word: Casualty
Meaning: a person who is hurt or killed in a war or accident
Example: They warned us that if an employee fails to wear his hard hat and a casualty occurs; we could face jail time.

Word: Casuistry
Meaning:  a way of arguing in a misleading or deceptive manner
Example: The salesman used casuistry in an attempt to convince me he had the best deal in town.

Word: Catachresis
Meaning: the misuse of words on purpose; usually as a stylistic writing effect
Example: When writing; the author used a catachresis when he replaced “stuffed” with “stuck”.

Word: Cataclysm
Meaning: an abrupt forceful event
Example: A severe attack upon the Internet could cause a cataclysm in the financial world.

Word: Catacombs
Meaning: underground cemeteries with tunnels and rooms where the dead are kept
Example: The Catacombs of ancient Rome were underground burial places built in 2nd century AD.

Word: Catalog
Meaning: a list; usually of goods or services for sale or items that are available to be used
Example: Every Christmas; the family received a Sears’ catalog with pictures of popular toys inside.

Word: Catalyst
Meaning:  a person; thing; or event that quickly causes change or action
Example: The enzyme was the catalyst that triggered the chemical reaction.

Word: Catalyze
Meaning: to bring about a change
Example: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. used sit-ins and marches to catalyze laws in the US.

Word: Catapult
Meaning: to hurl; launch; throw or propel
Example: At the first sound of the alarm clock; I catapult out of bed and race through my morning chores.

Word: Cataract
Meaning: cloudy area in the eye's lens
Example: After complaining that she could not see properly; Rachel was informed that she had a cataract on her left eye that was blurring her vision.

Word: Catastrophe
Meaning: a disaster of huge proportions
Example: My teenager needs to realize losing her lipstick is not a catastrophe.

Word: Catastrophic
Meaning: associated with a major disaster
Example: The catastrophic wreck on the highway involved over forty vehicles.

Word: Catatonic
Meaning: motionless and unresponsive
Example: A catatonic fear immobilized Drew; preventing her escape.

Word: Catch 22
Meaning: difficult / no-win situation
Example: The choice you’re giving me is a catch 22 because; no matter which option I choose; I’m not going to be happy with either one.

Word: Catchy
Meaning: likely to attract attention or interest
Example: The show’s catchy theme song made the television program memorable for everyone who watched it.

Word: Categorical
Meaning: stated in a definite manner
Example: My father’s categorical denial let me know there was no need to ask again.

Word: Categorize
Meaning: to place something in a class or group based on its attributes
Example: I decided to categorize this homework as math because it has a lot of math in it despite being assigned by the science teacher.

Word: Category
Meaning: a class or division of people or things that have similar characteristics
Example: Which category does a tomato fall into: fruit or vegetable?

Word: Cater
Meaning: to provide food professionally for a special occasion
Example: We cater lunches for groups of 20 or more.

Word: Caterwaul
Meaning: a shrill wailing or screeching noise
Example: The caterwaul the cats outside were making grated on my ears and made me wish I had earplugs.

Word: Catharsis
Meaning: the process of releasing strong emotions and feelings
Example: Sometimes the act of taking a break away from the world will help a tired person experience the catharsis he or she needs to deal with everyday life.

Word: Cathartic
Meaning: providing psychological relief through the open expression of strong emotions
Example: Because journal writing allows me to express my emotions; it is a very cathartic process for me.

Word: Cathexis
Meaning: the obsessive concentration of one’s thoughts and emotions on a person; event; or object
Example: Because of his cathexis with his blanket; the obsessed toddler refused to sleep without it.

Word: Catholic
Meaning: extensive and widespread in choices and activities
Example: As the busy young woman chose from the catholic events displayed; she could pick from sports to crafts to dancing and everything in between.

Word: Cattle
Meaning: cows and bulls that are raised and are usually kept for their meat or milk
Example: The cattle roamed the ranch; chewing on grass and mooing at everything in sight.

Word: Catty
Meaning: spiteful and mean in the way that one behaves or speaks
Example: Most of the junior high girls were catty and spent their free time gossiping about others.

Word: Caucus 
Meaning: a gathering of individuals who come together to work for a shared objective – generally political in nature 
Example: The Black Student Caucus is holding a cultural diversity workshop in the media center on Saturday.

Word: Cauldron
Meaning: a large bowl shaped pot used for cooking over an open flame
Example: When our family went camping we would often use a cauldron to slowly cook our stew for dinner.

Word: Causality
Meaning: a producing means or power
Example: Once the missionaries realized the causality of the child deaths in this third world country was malnutrition; they pleaded with their church to supply money for food.

Word: Cause
Meaning: to make something happen
Example: The police could not figure out what would cause the friendly woman to kill her neighbor and then herself.

Word: Caustic
Meaning: extremely sarcastic or critical
Example: The comic’s caustic jokes offended quite a few people.

Word: Cauterize
Meaning: to burn the skin around a wound to stop bleeding or prevent infection
Example: To stop the patient from bleeding; the doctor had to use a hot iron to cauterize the wound.

Word: Caution
Meaning: acting carefully to avoid danger or mistakes
Example: We must proceed with caution if we do not want to get caught by the guards; so move quickly and quietly.

Word: Cautionary
Meaning: something that serves as a warning to others
Example: My brother’s foolishness while driving his go cart served as a cautionary tale to anyone that didn’t want to end up in a similar wreck.

Word: Cautious
Meaning: careful; watchful
Example: Remaining cautious; the police officer shined his flashlight slowly into the abandoned building.

Word: Cavalcade
Meaning: a procession of things; usually related to movement
Example: The president’s cavalcade included several sports utility vehicles; six police cars; and a police motorcycle unit.

Word: Cavalier
Meaning: displaying a lack of worry
Example: Bryan will regret his cavalier attitude about studying when he fails to graduate on time.

Word: Cavalry
Meaning: soldiers in a certain part of the army who ride horses into battle
Example: As the cavalry was called in; they mounted their stallions and descended into the valley to confront the enemy.

Word: Caveat
Meaning: a warning of the limits of a particular agreement or statement
Example: The caveat of the contract includes a penalty fee if the loan is not repaid on time.

Word: Cavern
Meaning: a large cave or chamber
Example: Sleeping in the toasty cavern; the bear slumbered all winter.

Word: Cavernous
Meaning: vast; spacious
Example: Over ten thousand people filled the cavernous building; packing the vast stadium to capacity.

Word:  Cavil 
Meaning: to gripe about something minor
Example: Because my sister is so hard to please; she will cavil about the smallest of things.

Word: Cavity
Meaning: an empty space within something that is usually used for something unexpected
Example: The star-crossed lovers hid secret letters in the small cavity in their favorite oak tree.

Word: Cavort
Meaning: to move around in an excited fashion
Example: The boys cavort around the pool while watching bikini-clad girls.

Word: Cease
Meaning: to put an end to something
Example: Once the treaty is announced; the fighting on the border should cease.

Word: Ceasefire
Meaning: an agreement between two warring factions to stop fighting
Example: When it was obvious they he had no chance to win World War Two; the Nazis agreed to a ceasefire; ending the war on the European front.

Word: Cede
Meaning: to give away authority to a government; group; or person
Example: When Matt became terminally ill; he had no choice but to cede control of his company to his daughter.

Word: Celebrate
Meaning: to recognize a special day or event by taking part in special activities
Example: This week we will celebrate my little brother’s birth with a huge party and a delicious cake.

Word: Celebratory
Meaning: feeling or expressing happiness and joy
Example: We are having a celebratory party for my brother; who just graduated from twelfth grade as the valedictorian of his class.

Word: Celerity
Meaning: quickness of motion; speed
Example: The slave will be punished if his celerity is not fast enough for his master.

Word: Celestial 
Meaning: associated with a spiritual paradise or heaven
Example: Since I am an atheist; I do not believe in a celestial afterlife.

Word: Celibacy
Meaning: the state of voluntarily being unmarried; sexually abstinent; or both
Example: The sister’s vow of celibacy was not understood by her family members but was respected.

Word: Cellar
Meaning: an enclosed underground space under a building 
Example: Because the lowest room in the building is the safest in a tornado; we immediately went downstairs from the kitchen to the cellar.

Word: Cellular Respiration
Meaning: the process by which organisms use oxygen to break down food molecules to get chemical energy for cellular functions
Example: While breaking up sugars; the woman’s body cells are creating energy through cellular respiration.

Word: Celsius
Meaning: a measurement of temperature in which 0 is the freezing point; and 100 is the boiling point
Example: The weatherman used a thermometer to determine the temperature for the day in Celsius.

Word: Cement
Meaning: to firmly bind or join something together
Example: The newlywed couple hoped that their new baby would further cement their marriage.

Word: Censor
Meaning: to remove inappropriate or objectionable content
Example: Although her mother attempted to censor her music collection; the girl continued to download explicit songs.

Word: Censorious
Meaning: extremely critical
Example: Jill is a bully who constantly makes censorious statements about her coworkers.

Word: Censorship
Meaning: the practice of removing content viewed as inappropriate 
Example: Censorship has allowed the government to prevent the media from airing criticisms of its leadership.

Word: Censurable
Meaning: deserving censure or blame
Example: The movie was censurable; due to the extreme violence that was unsuitable for minors.

Word: Censure
Meaning: an official reprimand
Example: If Bart receives another censure from his boss; he will more than likely lose his job.

Word: Census
Meaning: a certified tally of a population in a specific region
Example: According to last year’s census over five hundred thousand people live in our city.

Word: Centennial
Meaning: the hundredth anniversary of an event or happening
Example: The centennial celebration of the railway was held in Lincoln Nebraska; with much pomp and glamor.

Word: Centerpiece
Meaning: an object or project that takes a central position or importance
Example: Placing the centerpiece at the middle of the table; the decorator prepared the home for the Thanksgiving feast.

Word: Centigrade
Meaning: centigrade temperature scale
Example: In chemistry; we needed to convert the boiling point from Fahrenheit to centigrade.

Word: Central
Meaning: essential or significant
Example: After reading the story; the central character consistently fought against the villain throughout the story.

Word: Centrifugal
Meaning: moving away or advancing from an axis or center
Example: Because I love freshly squeezed juice; I bought a centrifugal juicer that pulls the liquid from the pulp.

Word: Centrifuge
Meaning: a piece of machinery that spins rapidly in order to create a force which separates substances 
Example: In the nuclear plants; scientists take every precaution as they separate uranium in a centrifuge.

Word: Centripetal
Meaning: moving towards the center
Example: The centripetal star is slowly accelerating towards the middle of its solar system.

Word: Centurion
Meaning: a commanding soldier in Ancient Rome who lead groups of 100 soldiers
Example: The Roman centurion lead his group of one hundred soldiers into battle.

Word: Century
Meaning: a period of 100 consecutive years
Example: Our grandmother was born in the nineteenth century; which spanned from January 1st 1801 until December 31st 1900.

Word: Cerebral
Meaning: involving the brain or intellect
Example: Because of Adam’s intellectual sense of humor; he is the only one who ever laughs at his cerebral jokes.

Word: Ceremonial
Meaning: relating to or used for formal religious or public events
Example: The priest wears a formal ceremonial robe when he is baptizing children.

Word: Ceremony
Meaning: a formal event held on a special occasion
Example: Preparing for the upcoming ceremony; the pastor rehearsed his speech for the nuptials.

Word: Certain
Meaning: absolute; without question
Example: Science has proven that it is absolutely certain that the sun is what allows us all to stay alive here on planet Earth.

Word: Certificate
Meaning: a document containing certified facts
Example: Karen was able to receive a copy of her birth certificate after the original was destroyed in a house fire.

Word: Certify
Meaning: to guarantee that something is true in an official way
Example: A piece of paper was issued to certify the diamond was real.

Word: Certitude
Meaning: the condition of being certain or sure about something
Example: Unfortunately; the witness could not describe her attacker’s face with certitude.

Word: Cessation
Meaning: the termination of something
Example: The arrival of several police cruisers brought a quick cessation to the gang fight.

Word: Cesspool
Meaning: a circumstance or place that is corrupt and/or filthy
Example: Because the bar is filled with drug addicts and killers; it’s a real cesspool.

Word: Chafe
Meaning: to worry or fret
Example: My protective father tends to chafe whenever I go on a date.

Word: Chaff
Meaning: of very little value
Example: The pawn store owner refused to buy the thief’s chaff because it was worthless.

Word: Chagrin
Meaning: a feeling of being frustrated or annoyed because of failure or disappointment 
Example: To her chagrin; Jill placed second in the beauty pageant.

Word: Chair
Meaning: a seat that a person sits in that usually has a back and four legs
Example: Plopping down in the chair; the man prepared to relax and watch TV from his recliner.

Word: Chalice
Meaning: a large cup or goblet that is used to drink wine
Example: Raising his jeweled chalice and tapping the cup with his knife; the king made a toast to the success of his kingdom.

Word: Challenge
Meaning: a demand to battle in a match or brawl
Example: As the two men challenge the obnoxious younger man to a fight; he agreed and all three of them headed out of the establishment into the street.

Word: Chamber
Meaning: a compartment or space
Example: Calling the attorney’s into his chamber; the judge used his private room to counsel both sides.

Word: Champion
Meaning: a person who has defeated all rivals in a competition
Example: Standing on top of the platform; the Olympic champion received a gold medal for his win.

Word: Chance
Meaning: a possibility or likelihood
Example: There is always a chance that the baker will run out of donuts; but the likelihood is much higher on Mondays.

Word: Changeable
Meaning: easy to be changed or replaced
Example: The traveler bought a changeable ticket that could be swapped for a different date if needed.

Word: Changed
Meaning: altered; made different
Example: Although she changed her original classes to a few different courses; the student still wasn’t happy with her altered schedule.

Word: Changeling
Meaning: a boy or girl who is replaced with another child either on purpose as part of a scheme or by accident
Example: In order to make the mother believe her daughter had been found; a changeling was sent in as a substitute who closely resembled her daughter.

Word: Channel
Meaning: a passage that water or other liquids flow through
Example: A channel was created between the two rivers so that goods could be transported across the waterway.

Word: Chant
Meaning: rhythmic speaking or singing of words or sounds
Example: """USA! USA! USA!"" is a chant you hear from Americans at some political rallies or sports events."

Word: Chaos 
Meaning: a state of confusion 
Example: The chaos in the cafeteria began when one student threw his lunch at another student.

Word: Chap
Meaning: of the skin become cracked; rough; or sore; typically through exposure to cold weather; a cracked or sore patch on the skin
Example: She always carried extra lip balm in her purse during cold weather because the frigid air made her lips chap.

Word: Chaperone
Meaning: to watch and ensure the safety of another individual
Example: Parents chaperone the children at the school dance.

Word: Characteristic
Meaning: trait
Example: The only characteristic the man got from his father was his dark eyes.

Word: Characterize
Meaning: to describe
Example: The company is refusing to characterize the event as a PR nightmare; but their stocks have dropped significantly.

Word: Charade
Meaning: a sham or farce
Example: Keeping up the charade; my family continued to pretend that they weren’t going to throw my little sister a surprise party.

Word: Charisma
Meaning: charm; attractiveness
Example: The politician earned a lot of female votes because of his winning smile and charisma.

Word: Charismatic
Meaning: having a convincing charm that inspires others to believe what you say
Example: The charismatic cult leader convinced his followers he was the only path to heaven.

Word: Charitable
Meaning: generous in giving to those in need
Example: Charitable donations were made to help those who lost their homes during the flood.

Word: Charity
Meaning: the voluntary giving of money or assistance to those in need
Example: A charity run is being held to raise funds for the city’s homeless population.

Word: Charlatan
Meaning: a person who falsely pretends to know or be something in order to deceive people
Example: The charlatan pretended to be a doctor so he could go into the hospital and steal prescription drugs.

Word: Charm
Meaning: the ability to persuade; delight or arouse admiration 
Example: Rose soon learned from her new boss that her charm is why she was chosen for the hostess job.

Word: Chart
Meaning: to record information
Example: The nurse used pen and paper to chart all of the patient’s vital signs for the night.

Word: Charter
Meaning: a government-issued document that provides a group or individual with certain rights 
Example: The king’s charter gave the colonists the right to set up residence in the new world.

Word: Chary
Meaning: apprehensive about doing something
Example: Because Vera was chary about going in the old house; I agreed to go in with her.

Word: Chase
Meaning: to run after or pursue someone or something
Example: The dog tried to chase the cat up the tree; but the kitty got away.

Word: Chasm 
Meaning: a major difference in opinion between individuals or groups
Example: Jack and I ended our relationship because of the religious chasm that divided us.

Word: Chaste
Meaning: wholesome; pure in thought
Example: Because I am very religious; I told my boyfriend we could do nothing more than exchange chaste kisses.

Word: Chasten
Meaning: to punish or reprimand in order to correct 
Example: As a parent; I don’t feel spanking is a good way to chasten your kids.

Word: Chastise
Meaning: to criticize someone harshly for doing something wrong
Example: If you bully someone in Mrs. Marshall’s class; she will chastise you and keep you after school.

Word: Chastity
Meaning: the condition of remaining pure and chaste
Example: The nun took a vow of chastity as part of her commitment to remain pure.

Word: Chateau
Meaning: a huge house or manor that is most often seen in France
Example: My chateau in France is a huge manor.

Word: Chatoyant
Meaning: describes a gemstone that has a reflective streak or cat's eye effect in the center
Example: Each of the chatoyant minerals had a luminous band in the center.

Word: Chattel
Meaning: personal property that can be relocated
Example: A slave was once considered to be an owner’s chattel.

Word: Chatter
Meaning: trivial talk or chit chat
Example: Full of gossip; my nosy neighbors’ chatter could be heard on my front porch.

Word: Chauffeur
Meaning: one who drives a car as an occupation
Example: I’ll have the chauffeur drive me to the store tomorrow.

Word: Chauvinism
Meaning: a narrow-minded confidence in the supremacy of one’s own group or gender
Example: Despite the chauvinism of the male racers; Danica went on to become a successful racecar driver.

Word: Chauvinist
Meaning: someone who displays extreme or aggressive support for something
Example: Some people consider my sister to be a chauvinist when it comes to feminism; as she gets both angry and irritated when someone opposes her point of view.

Word: Cheap
Meaning: low in price; not expensive
Example: Cheap products can be purchased at the Dollar Tree since everything there costs a dollar or less.

Word: Cheapen
Meaning: to reduce the price or quality of something
Example: If the movie theater decides to cheapen the price of tickets; more people will be able to afford tickets.

Word: Checks and balances
Meaning: a controlled system in the three government branches where each branch has some rights to change or stop the actions of another branch
Example: Even though the president of the United States is the actual leader of the military; he can’t declare war on another country due to the system of checks and balances.

Word: Cheeky
Meaning: impudent or unapologetic but in a generally charming way
Example: The third grader was extremely cheeky; rarely referring to the teacher as ‘Mr. Walters’ rather than ‘gramps;’ but it was somewhat endearing.

Word: Cheerful
Meaning: displaying or feeling happiness
Example: Jan was in a cheerful mood on her wedding day.

Word: Chemical
Meaning: any basic substance that is used in or produced by a reaction involving changes to atoms
Example: The chemical is used to clean the kitchen; but care must be taken since the substance is so strong.

Word: Chemistry
Meaning: emotional or mental attraction/interaction between two people
Example: Instant chemistry between the couple led them to an engagement and wedding within six months of meeting.

Word: Cherish
Meaning: to treasure or deeply care for something
Example: I will forever cherish the teddy bear my late grandfather had given to me.

Word: Cherub 
Meaning: a child who looks innocent or beautiful
Example: Everyone referred to the adorable baby as a cherub.

Word: Chew
Meaning: to bite off something and grind it up using teeth
Example: It is hard to chew up an apple if you have two missing front teeth.

Word: Chiaroscuro
Meaning: an artistic image emphasizing the brightness and darkness while de-emphasizing color
Example: Art critics at the art gallery admired the chiaroscuro of the black and white photograph since the shade covered everything but the bright eyes of the woman.

Word: Chic
Meaning: tastefully stylish
Example: The chic heels will go perfectly with my stylish dress.

Word: Chicanery
Meaning: the use of trickery to achieve a political; financial; or legal purpose
Example: You can smell the chicanery from a dishonest politician.

Word: Chide
Meaning: tell somebody off; scold
Example: I don’t want the boss to chide me for being late again; so I’m setting the alarm for a half hour earlier.

Word: Chiffon
Meaning: light and silky fabric
Example: Before I put on my new chiffon skirt; I checked the temperature to make sure it was not going to be too cold outside.

Word: Child
Meaning: a young human being
Example: At 10; the child still liked to play with dolls and ride her bike.

Word: Childhood
Meaning: the time during which one is a child; from between infancy and puberty
Example: My stepmother is a mean woman who likes to insult little kids because she had a miserable childhood herself.

Word: Childlike
Meaning: being innocent or naïve in a manner befitting of a child
Example: Even as a young adult; Avan has an almost childlike innocence to him that many people find endearing; even though others think it foolish.

Word: Chime
Meaning: ringing or tone making component of a device 
Example: I enabled the chime mode on my watch so it will sound a long beep each hour.

Word: Chimera
Meaning: a creation of a person’s mind; something that is not real
Example: Ron’s mental disorder caused him to believe there was a dangerous chimera out to get him.

Word: Chimerical
Meaning: an invention of an individual’s imagination
Example: The company was fined when the government discovered it had used chimerical data to get approval for its new drug.

Word: Chipper
Meaning: happy and cheerful
Example: After having a great day at work; Martha was in a happy and chipper mood.

Word: Chirp
Meaning: a short; high-pitched sound
Example: Nothing irritates me more than a bird that wants to constantly chirp outside of my window in the morning; ruining my sleep.

Word: Chisel
Meaning: a long-bladed hand tool that is struck with a hammer to cut or shape hard materials
Example: Ancient sculptors used a hammer and a chisel to shape the blocks of stones that they wished to turn into statues.

Word: Chit-chat
Meaning: to engage in small talk; to discuss unimportant matters.
Example: Sitting close to the teacher will make it harder for you to chit-chat with classmates as the teacher will likely remind you to quiet down.

Word: Chivalrous
Meaning: displaying respect to members of the female sex
Example: My chivalrous husband always opens doors for me.

Word: Chivalry
Meaning: courteous conduct 
Example: The teenager displayed chivalry when he held the door open for the girls in his group.

Word: Chlorophyll 
Meaning: the pigment in a plant responsible for its green color and the light absorption needed for energy production
Example: Chlorophyll gives plants their green hue.

Word: Choice
Meaning: an option; a decision; an opportunity to choose or select something
Example: Now that I’ve graduated High School; I have a choice to make whether I go to College.

Word: Choleric
Meaning: easily irritated; grumpy
Example: Since I do not sleep well; I am choleric when someone calls me after I have gone to bed.

Word: Cholesterol
Meaning: a fatty substance in the body tissue and blood that is connected to heart disease when found in large amounts
Example: Although your body needs some cholesterol; in large amounts this fatty substance can hurt the tissue around your heart.

Word: Choose
Meaning: to select
Example: You can choose one main course meal and also select a dessert.

Word: Chop
Meaning: to cut something into pieces with a sharp blow from an edged tool
Example: Without a gas fireplace; my dad always had to go into the woods and chop lumber for our family with an axe.

Word: Chord
Meaning: three or more musical tones sounded at the same time
Example: Pressing the three keys simultaneously; the piano player struck a chord and let out a melodious sound.

Word: Chore
Meaning: a routine and generally disliked task; usually carried out in the household
Example: My main chore around the house is taking out the trash; which I personally believe is preferable to my brother; who has to walk the dog.

Word: Choreography
Meaning: the sequence of steps and movements in a dance or figure skating routine
Example: Coming up with the choreography was easy; but actually sequencing the dance moves with the music was a lot harder.

Word: Chorister
Meaning: a person who sings in a choir
Example: Even though he likes playing the piano for the choir more than being a chorister; the young man is a talented singer.

Word:  Chortle 
Meaning: to chuckle or snort in amusement or glee
Example: As Santa Claus listened to the little boy’s joke; he started to chortle in amusement.

Word: Chorus
Meaning: a part of a song generally repeated after every verse
Example: The chorus of a song is often the most recognizable part of it; since it is repeated multiple times throughout the piece.

Word: Chose
Meaning: the act of having chosen something
Example: Mordred of the Round Table chose to betray his Lord; King Arthur; rather than serve him faithfully.

Word: Christened
Meaning: ceremonially dedicated
Example: The newborn baby was christened; being dedicated to Christ in front of her family.

Word: Christianity
Meaning: the religion that uses the Bible as its scared book and is based on the person and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth
Example: Although they are both monotheistic religions; few view Christianity as a cult religion like they do Islam.

Word: Chromatic
Meaning: relating to color; colorful
Example: Several artists used the same chromatic colors in their portraits at the display.

Word: Chromatin
Meaning: genetic material composed of DNA and proteins that condenses to form chromosomes
Example: Found in the inside of the cell; chromatin is made up mostly of DNA and proteins.

Word: Chromosome
Meaning: that portion of the cell that holds the genes which determine the identity and development of a plant or animal
Example: A chromosome is the cell organelle that contains the genes that define an organism’s traits.

Word: Chronic
Meaning: appearing for a lengthy period of time
Example: For three months; I have had a chronic headache.

Word: Chronicle
Meaning: a report that describes events in the order in which they occurred 
Example: When the detective read the chronicle of the attack; he knew how and when the victim died.

Word: Chronological
Meaning: organized in the order of occurrence
Example: The easiest way to comprehend history is in chronological order; learning of events in the order that they happened in time.

Word: Chronology
Meaning: the time pattern in which something happens
Example: The detectives sought to create the chronology leading up to the victim’s disappearance.

Word: Chronometer
Meaning: an instrument designed to keep time with great accuracy; especially when at sea
Example: The chronometer was designed to help sailors more accurately determine longitude.

Word: Chthonic
Meaning: concerning or belonging to the underworld hell
Example: The chthonic creature came up from the underworld to terrorize the city.

Word: Chuckle
Meaning: to laugh quietly
Example: Letting out a soft chuckle; the janitor couldn’t help but laugh at the conversation he overheard.

Word: Chum
Meaning: a close friend or pal
Example: Melody was my old school chum; but we haven’t been friends in years.

Word: Chunk
Meaning: a large piece of something
Example: A huge chunk of rock fell off the mountain and onto the road below.

Word: Churl
Meaning: a rude and mean-spirited person
Example: Theo often acted like a churl; being mean to everyone he came in contact with.

Word: Churlish
Meaning: rude; impolite
Example: Although Ms. X is a beautiful and talented actress; she has a reputation for being churlish and difficult to get along with.

Word: Chute
Meaning: vertical or inclined plane; channel; or passage for sliding things downward
Example: Santa’s elves pushed presents down the chute and into the back of the sleigh.

Word: Chutzpah
Meaning: personal confidence or courage that may come across as rude but allows one to do or say what they feel
Example: Full of chutzpah; the arrogant man wasn’t afraid to voice his opinion to anyone.

Word: Cilia
Meaning: the feather-like; thin hairs connected to the eyelid known as an eyelash
Example: Humans have an average of 250 cilia per eye and even though at least one eyelash falls out per day; they grow back quickly.

Word: Cinder
Meaning: a small; glowing piece of partly burnt coal or wood
Example: One glowing cinder was all that remained of the once burning fire.

Word: Cinematography
Meaning: the study or skill of making movies
Example: Before becoming a world-known filmmaker; Peter studied cinematography at Bowen University.

Word: Cipher
Meaning: a code that is not easily solved
Example: The serial killer left a cipher with each body that provided clues to the detectives on where to find the next victim.

Word: Circa
Meaning: around or about a certain date
Example: The historian is not certain of the exact date; but he believes the war took place circa 300;000 years ago.

Word: Circle
Meaning: a group of people that share interests; professions; or acquaintances
Example: My circle of friends includes myself and the two kids I grew up with since elementary school; though I am eager to add more.

Word: Circuitous
Meaning: not said or done simply or clearly 
Example: Because the spy did not want to give away the location of his headquarters; he always took a long and circuitous route to his office.

Word: Circular
Meaning: shaped like a circle; round
Example: The circular tower was much taller than the ones built in a square shape instead of a rounded one.

Word: Circulate
Meaning: to spread or move around freely; to move in circles
Example: The new company was planning to circulate fliers about their up and coming business.

Word: Circulation
Meaning: the continuous movement of something in a closed section
Example: While on the plane; the woman’s blood circulation was reduced and her legs began to cramp.

Word: Circumference
Meaning: the distance around something round or rounded; like the distance around the edge of a circle
Example: The nurse measured the circumference of the newborn babies’ head.

Word: Circumlocution
Meaning: the use of too many words to say something; especially in order to avoid saying something clearly
Example: The con man tried to use circumlocution to avoid explaining his real intentions to the wealthy couple.

Word: Circumnavigate
Meaning: to travel entirely around something
Example: In order to get into the police station; we must first circumnavigate the crowd of protestors.

Word: Circumscribe
Meaning: to limit the range or scope of something to a particular degree
Example: When my husband drinks too much; I hide his car keys to circumscribe his capacity to drive.

Word: Circumspect
Meaning: to think carefully before doing or saying anything; in order to avoid risks or consequences; cautious
Example: In this day and age; you need to be circumspect about giving out too much personal information on the internet.

Word: Circumstance
Meaning: a particular incident that influences another event
Example: Under no circumstance will I allow my daughter to go to a party that is not supervised by an adult.

Word: Circumstantial
Meaning: something that seems to be true but is not proven
Example: The evidence against the suspect was purely circumstantial and was not enough to convict.

Word: Circumvent
Meaning: to get around something
Example: If we do not find a way to circumvent this problem; we will not be able to finish the project.

Word: Cistern
Meaning: a reservoir or tank for holding water; especially for catching and holding rainwater for later use
Example: Due to living in the rural areas of Montana; the farmer kept a cistern filled with water.

Word: Citadel
Meaning: a stronghold or fortress that was normally built on elevated ground
Example: Guards hid the royal family in a secret room in the citadel during the invasion.

Word: Citation
Meaning: specific information to identify and locate a specific publication
Example: A citation that was listed in the book I was reading lead me to additional articles.

Word: Cite
Meaning: to use the words of another
Example: When the politician accepts his party’s presidential nomination; he will more than likely cite a former president in his speech.

Word: Citizen
Meaning: a legally recognized resident of a city; state; or town
Example: The path to becoming a citizen is a long one for illegal residents or those who have previously committed crimes.

Word: Citizenship
Meaning: the right to be a citizen of a particular country
Example: If you were born in the United States; you have already gained your citizenship.

Word: Civic
Meaning: related to a city or citizen
Example: Nonviolent civic protests were taking place to protect the rights of the U.S. citizens.

Word: Civil Law
Meaning: system of law concerned with private affairs between citizens rather than criminal affairs
Example: A dispute between two neighbors that is taken to court would be considered within the realm of civil law rather than criminal justice.

Word: Civil Rights
Meaning: the rights of citizens to political and social freedom and equality
Example: Martin Luther King Jr. fought for the civil rights of African Americans to share public spaces; attend schools; and vote.

Word: Civil
Meaning: polite and cultured
Example: We insisted that both parties begin to interact in a decent and civil way; despite all their years of fighting.

Word: Civilian
Meaning: person who is not an active member of the armed forces; non-military person
Example: The undercover agent dresses in civilian clothes.

Word: Civility
Meaning: politeness
Example: Her civility was apparent when she greeted her new guests with appropriate introductions and shaking of hands.

Word: Civilization
Meaning:  a society that is developed and productive in its resource usage
Example: The student was thrilled when her professor invited her to join the team that was digging to unearth an early civilization.

Word: Civilized
Meaning: well-mannered and polite
Example: Kate was warned by her principal that she better start acting in a civilized way if she hoped to graduate with the rest of her class.

Word: Clabber
Meaning: curdle
Example: Leaving the toddler’s cup in the sun caused the milk inside to clabber.

Word: Clad
Meaning: concealed by something
Example: For safety reasons; the president’s vehicle is clad in bulletproof armor.

Word: Claim
Meaning: to make a questionable statement about something
Example: Scientists claim that a giant asteroid hit the Earth and destroyed the dinosaurs; triggering the Ice Age.

Word: Claimant
Meaning: someone who makes a claim; especially in a lawsuit before a court
Example: The claimant was rewarded money for the damages to her property.

Word: Clairvoyant
Meaning: able to see beyond the range of ordinary observation
Example: The psychic’s clairvoyant abilities allowed her to see into the future.

Word: Clamber
Meaning: to crawl or climb in an awkward manner
Example: Fortunately; the baby fell back onto the soft carpet after trying to clamber up the steps.

Word: Clambering
Meaning: ascending in an awkward manner
Example: The children laughed when they saw the old man clambering over the tall fence.

Word: Clammy
Meaning: unpleasantly damp and sticky or slimy to touch
Example: The feverish girl's skin was clammy and slick with a light layer of sweat.

Word: Clamor
Meaning: to ask for loudly
Example: As soon as the people learn about the little boy’s murder; they are going to clamor for justice.

Word: Clamorous 
Meaning: noisy; loud
Example: The clamorous noise kept us up all night.

Word: Clan
Meaning: a tribe or family
Example: Each clan in the village had a different symbol on the totem pole to represent their family.

Word: Clan
Meaning: a group of close-knit people or families
Example: The Mayfield clan gathers every summer for a roundhouse family reunion.

Word: Clandestine
Meaning: done in an unobtrusive manner to avoid detection
Example: We waited until after our parents went to sleep to have our clandestine meeting about their surprise party.

Word: Clang
Meaning: a loud; usually echoing sound of metallic impact
Example: There was a loud clang as I dropped the pot I was cooking with on the tile kitchen floor.

Word: Clangor
Meaning: a continuous noisy banging 
Example: The angry wife wanted her sleeping husband to hear the clangor of pots and pans in the kitchen.

Word: Claptrap
Meaning: ridiculous talk that doesn’t make any sense
Example: The old gossipers didn’t tell the truth but simply sat on their porches sharing claptrap with one another.

Word: Clarification
Meaning: a detailed explanation given to make something more understandable
Example: For clarification; would you please show me how to use the glucose meter again?

Word: Clarify
Meaning: to make clear and easier to understand
Example: Because our instructor was so unclear; I had to continually ask him to clarify and repeat what he was saying.

Word: Clarion
Meaning: forceful and clear-cut
Example: Because the captain’s clarion instructions were loud and clear; you had to hear them.

Word: Clarity
Meaning: the quality of being clear and easily understood
Example: I edited my work for clarity; making sure to avoid any kind of legalese.

Word: Clash
Meaning: to collide together noisily or violently
Example: The baby continued to clash the pots and pans together; making a huge racket.

Word: Clasp
Meaning: take hold of; grab tightly
Example: I would clasp the check firmly in one hand because dropping it would mean possibly losing ten thousand dollars.

Word: Class
Meaning: impressive style; wealth; or behavior
Example: That woman with the fancy dress and the elegant poise clearly has class; though I wonder if she acts that way just to impress people.

Word: Classic
Meaning: a work of art that has been recognized to be of high quality and worth over time
Example: Almost each and every one of Shakespeare’s plays has become a classic by now; being hailed as masterfully written pieces of literature by most everyone.

Word: Classification
Meaning: a group of things or people that are grouped together because of what they have in common
Example: Because our school is grouped in a larger classification; our football team doesn’t play smaller neighboring schools.

Word: Classification
Meaning: the process of classifying or labeling things based on shared traits
Example: Scientists use classification to divide the animal kingdom and make them easier to study and understand based on their similarities.

Word: Classify
Meaning: to group things or people together in categories based on things they have in common
Example: The teacher had her students classify all the shapes with less than four sides in one basket and the shapes with more than four or more sides in another.

Word: Classify
Meaning: to arrange things into groups depending on their shared qualities
Example: I tend to classify motor vehicles based on their shape and aesthetic design; by separating them into cars; trucks; and SUVs.

Word: Classy
Meaning: elegant and refined in look in style
Example: Dressed in a classy ensemble; the stylish model made her way down the runway.

Word: Clause
Meaning: a separate part of a contract or other binding document that gives more information
Example: The plaintiff asked the judge to look at the last clause of her lease which she believed proved that she had given her landlady enough time to find a new tenant.

Word: Claustrophobia
Meaning: the fear of closed; tight places
Example: My claustrophobia is out of control when I am in an elevator.

Word: Claw
Meaning: a curved pointed horny nail on each digit of the foot in birds; lizards; and some mammals
Example: At the Renaissance festival; falconers wear steel-enforced; mesh gloves to protect them from the bird's razor-sharp claw.

Word: Clay
Meaning: sediment that is made up of particles smaller than silt
Example: In art class; we had to make a sculpture out of clay and then heat it in the kiln so it would harden into a solid piece.

Word: Cleanliness
Meaning: the attribute of being clean or immaculate
Example: If you wish to impress someone on a date; you should practice cleanliness so you are not dirty when you see them.

Word: Cleanse
Meaning: to clean or wash something; usually of impurities
Example: A lack of laundry detergent made it hard to cleanse the clothing inside the washing machine.

Word: Clearance
Meaning: official permission to do something
Example: Before passengers were allowed on the plane; clearance had to be given by TSA officials.

Word: Cleats
Meaning: shoes with have metal projections on the bottom that are worn during sporting events
Example: The football player laced up his cleats and marched on to the field with his teammates.

Word: Cleavage
Meaning: a separation between two groups or things
Example: The chef cut into the cleavage between the breasts to make two pieces of chicken.

Word: Cleave
Meaning: to split with a tool
Example: You can use the axe to cleave the tree.

Word: Cleft
Meaning: an opening fissure; or V-shaped indentation made by or as if by splitting 
Example: Neil and Mary’s baby girl had a cleft lip repair at age six months.

Word: Clemency
Meaning: a decision not to punish someone severely
Example: The killer’s wife begged the judge to give her husband clemency so he would be out of prison before she died.

Word: Clement
Meaning: mild or merciful
Example: The kind warden insists all his prisoners receive clement treatment.

Word: Clergy
Meaning: individuals who lead religious groups 
Example: Because the clergy wants to increase church attendance; they are going door to door introducing themselves to community members.

Word: Clerical
Meaning: of or relating to clerks or their work; office tasks 
Example: The Department of Driver Services says clerical and administrative errors led to the mistake that landed a man in jail.

Word: Cliche
Meaning: a word or phrase used excessively
Example: When will Ginger come up with a new phrase and stop using that cliché in all her social media posts?

Word: Client
Meaning: a person who pays someone else for their services
Example: The attorney required the client to pay a 500 dollar fee before he would begin working on her case.

Word: Clientele
Meaning: the individuals who frequent a certain business
Example: The strip club’s clientele includes a number of politicians and wealthy business owners.

Word: Climate
Meaning: the temperature and weather associated with an environment or area
Example: Skiing resorts typically are located in a colder climate so that snow will fall naturally during the season.

Word: Climatic
Meaning: associated with climate 
Example: The climatic change could cause us to cancel our cookout.

Word: Climax
Meaning: the most extreme part of a story; play; song; or situation
Example: In the film the climax occurs when the heiress gives up her fortune and walks out of the family mansion.

Word: Climb
Meaning: to move upward towards the top of something
Example: I get out of breath when I climb the stairs; even if it’s just a few steps.

Word: Clinch
Meaning: to make certain; to finalize
Example: The Senate must work quickly and together in order to clinch the budget deal to avoid a government shutdown.

Word: Cling
Meaning: hold tightly
Example: Eric does not like to swim while wearing an undershirt because wet clothes cling to his body.

Word: Clingy
Meaning: used to describe something that sticks onto someone or something tightly
Example: The clingy shirt stuck to the girl’s skin after she got out of the swimming pool.

Word: Clingy
Meaning: something or someone that is likely to stick; catch; or otherwise be stuck to something
Example: My dog is extremely clingy; refusing to leave my side no matter where I go; including the bathroom.

Word: Clinical
Meaning: related to the observation and treatment of a patient
Example: Clinical studies showed that many patients improve after taking the medication.

Word: Clique
Meaning: an exclusive group with few members
Example: The cool kids’ clique always sits in the last row of the auditorium.

Word: Cloak
Meaning: sleeveless; blanket-like covering
Example: Placing the cloak over her shoulders; she braced herself for the cold weather and stepped out of the shadows.

Word: Clod
Meaning: lump of something; especially of earth or clay
Example: After a long slow rainstorm; the soccer field created problems when the ball would make an awkward bounce after hitting a clod of dirt.

Word: Clog
Meaning: to block or slow passage through
Example: Pouring oil down the sink drain caused it to clog and fill with water.

Word: Cloister
Meaning: to isolate from others
Example: Although the girl was quite shy; she tried hard to not cloister herself in the corner at parties.

Word: Clone
Meaning: an organism or cell; or group of organisms or cells; produced asexually from one ancestor or stock; to which they are genetically identical
Example: The stranger resembled her so closely that she thought she was her clone.

Word: Close-minded
Meaning: having a narrow outlook that makes it difficult to consider other views or opinions
Example: The senior was so close-minded and judgemental; he wouldn’t even listen to his nephew’s unbiased views.

Word: Close
Meaning: uncomfortably humid and lacking in breezes or wind
Example: It’s been unusually close weather today; with only a single breeze to counter the humidity and the sweat that’s been plaguing everyone.

Word: Closeness
Meaning: to be in immediate distance or time to something else 
Example: Living in the same community; the closeness of the family could be seen when they attended every function together.

Word: Closure
Meaning: a sense of resolution at the end of an incident or artistic work
Example: Many people that end up divorcing want closure after the fact to help them feel as though it is well and truly behind them.

Word: Cloture
Meaning: the act of ending a debate or discussion with a request for a vote
Example: Although the senator knew he could lose the vote; he demanded cloture of the debate so the votes could be cast.

Word: Cloud nine 
Meaning: a state of bliss; elation or happiness
Example: Tommy was on cloud nine after his girlfriend Amber accepted his proposal for marriage.

Word: Cloud
Meaning: a fluffy; usually white colored mass of water vapor that floats high in the sky
Example: Rain fell crispy from the cloud; covering the crops in a cool mist.

Word: Clout
Meaning: special advantage or influence to control situations
Example: The wedding planner used her clout to get the bride and groom a discount on their wedding location.

Word: Clown
Meaning: someone who acts silly to entertain or make others laugh
Example: The class clown always tries to make other kids laugh during class.

Word: Clown
Meaning: a comedic circus entertainer that usually dresses up in a silly costume with a red nose and big shoes
Example: The circus clown made the children laugh as he juggled bottles while singing a silly song.

Word:  Cloying 
Meaning: too sugary or sentimental
Example: Jill is no longer impressed by cloying lines of devotion after having her heart broken countless times.

Word: Clue
Meaning: information that may lead one to a certain point or conclusion 
Example: The detective looked around the house; searching for a clue to the whereabouts of a missing person.

Word: Clump
Meaning: a small; dense group of people or animals
Example: There is a clump of people standing outside of the new store; each of theme eager to partake in its opening sale before the competition can take the best goods.

Word: Clumsy
Meaning: awkward in movement or handling; prone to accidents or mistakes
Example: My dog is rather clumsy; bumping into things whenever she runs around and sliding on hard floors all the time.

Word: Clung
Meaning: gripped or stuck to something
Example: As the little girl didn’t want to be left at the preschool; she clung to her mother’s leg by wrapping both of her arms and legs around her mother’s calf.

Word: Cluster
Meaning: a group of similar things that are physically close to one another
Example: There is a small cluster of people standing at the edge of the hallway; blocking my path to my next class.

Word: Clutch
Meaning: to tightly hold or grasp
Example: Clutch my hand tightly if you don’t want to fall off the roof!

Word: Clutter
Meaning: a messy collection of things lying around
Example: Clutter filled the elderly couple’s home as they refused to get rid of anything they had every bought.

Word: Coach
Meaning: a person who trains others when it comes to a particular activity or skill
Example: Because our coach resigned; a new basketball trainer will need to be hired to guide the athletes.

Word: Coagulate
Meaning: to thicken or develop as a mass
Example: The killer did not realize the blood would coagulate on the floor and form a huge blob.

Word: Coalesce
Meaning: to join into a single mass
Example: Olivia stared into the distance and concentrated; hoping that all her random thoughts would somehow coalesce into one brilliant idea.

Word: Coalition
Meaning: a group formed to gain an advantage
Example: A coalition of downtown business owners has created a marketing plan to bring more shoppers into the downtown area.

Word: Coarse 
Meaning: lacking taste or sophistication
Example: The coarse young man was not sure which fork to use during the appetizer portion of the meal.

Word: Coastal
Meaning: near where a body of water meets land the coast
Example: The coastal plain running along the sea’s edge make for the perfect Pacific Ocean look-out.

Word: Coax
Meaning: persuade gradually
Example: Because the boy I babysat for needed me to coax him to brush his teeth; I made up a song to help encourage him.

Word: Cobble
Meaning: to mend; repair; or put something together
Example: The student council was asked to cobble together a plan for graduation day celebrations.

Word: Cocky
Meaning: conceited and smug
Example: After his team won the last 10 football games; the cocky quarterback told everyone at school that he won the game by himself.

Word: Cocky
Meaning: arrogant and conceited
Example: The cocky boxer wasn’t as arrogant after he was knocked out in the first round.

Word: Cocoon
Meaning: the silky protective case spun by the larvae of some insects and moths that serves as a covering for their pupal stage
Example: They are like a pupa waiting in its cocoon for rebirth; ultimately becoming a butterfly.

Word: Coda
Meaning: the final or extra part of a piece of music; speech; statement; or some other writing
Example: The final section of the song was sealed with a coda that sounded like an entirely different melody.

Word: Coddle
Meaning: to treat gently or with great care
Example: The babysitter realized that she couldn’t coddle the children because they started to ignore her commands.

Word: Code
Meaning: a systematic collection of rules and laws
Example: The code of chivalry was a set of rules and guidelines that dictated how knights were supposed to live their lives.

Word: Codependent
Meaning: attached to another person and reliant on them; usually emotionally or in an unhealthy way
Example: Because he is so codependent on his caregivers; the sick man looks to them to meet all of his needs.

Word: Codicil
Meaning: an addition to the will that changes or clarifies the original document
Example: Before my father died; he wrote a codicil to his will that prohibited his cheating wife from receiving any of his fortune.

Word: Codify 
Meaning: to classify things in a logical manner
Example: The interns will codify the financial receipts in chronological order.

Word: Coefficient
Meaning: a digit by which something else is multiplied 
Example: During class; I learned a coefficient is always attached to a variable.

Word: Coerce
Meaning: to make someone do something by using force or threats
Example: The bully tried to coerce the small kids into giving him their lunch money.

Word: Coetaneous
Meaning: a comparative term that means having the same age or date of origin as something else
Example: Because the coetaneous stars have the same brightness; they were probably created around the same time.

Word: Coeval
Meaning: similar in age or length of time
Example: Once Jenny and I realized our parties were coeval; I decided to host my event on another day.

Word: Coexist 
Meaning: to live in peaceful accord with others
Example: The gangs hang out at different parks because they can’t coexist at the same recreational area.

Word: Coffer
Meaning: a strong chest or box that is used to store money or valuables
Example: After placing all his loot into the coffer; the pirate locked the chest.

Word: Cog
Meaning: a wheel or bar with protrusions that transfer motion by interacting with another object with similar protrusions
Example: The inside of old analog clocks is full of small cogs and gears that work with each other to turn the hands of the clock on the outside.

Word: Cogency
Meaning: the state of being clear and coherent in a way that is likely to persuade others
Example: The attorney argues with a cogency that could convince any jury of his client’s innocence.

Word: Cogent
Meaning: very clear and easy for the mind to accept and believe
Example: Because the child was so young; I worked hard to give her cogent answers to her questions.

Word: Cogitate
Meaning:  to think hard about; to consider
Example: Even though he had received many invitations to celebrate his ninetieth birthday; the old spy preferred to stay home with a good cigar and quietly cogitate upon his life of adventure.

Word: Cognate
Meaning: associated by origin or birth
Example: The two fields are cognate because they both stem from the subject of biology.

Word: Cognition
Meaning: the mental courses by which one obtains knowledge through experiences and thoughts
Example: In the car accident; Steve acquired a head injury that affected his cognition and prevented him from learning new things.

Word: Cognizance
Meaning: to have awareness or knowledge of something
Example: My son has no cognizance that his reckless actions are dangerous.

Word: Cognizant
Meaning: knowledgeable of something; especially through personal experience
Example: Because I have been on a tight budget for two years; I am very cognizant of the importance of using coupons to get the best deals.

Word: Cohere
Meaning: to stick together; be united
Example: Lasagna layers need time out of the oven to cohere and become one solid mass.

Word: Coherent
Meaning: logical and clear
Example: If you can’t explain this concept in a more coherent way; I will never be able to understand it.

Word: Cohesion
Meaning: the act of coming together to form a united whole
Example: Cohesion of the two sides into one happy family was a lot harder than the new couple had hoped.

Word: Cohesive
Meaning: closely united; well integrated
Example: After six weeks of training together; our group bonded and became quite cohesive.

Word: Cohort
Meaning: a group of people supporting the same thing or person
Example: The Millennial generation is the largest cohort in US history.

Word: Coiffure
Meaning: the way in which a person’s hair is fixed; a hairstyle
Example: When Jimmy wears a coiffure of that style; he looks like a mobster in his silk suit.

Word: Coil
Meaning: to wind in circles or rings
Example: We watched the snake coil itself around its prey so that it could constrict it to death.

Word: Coinage
Meaning: coins that are used in a country
Example: Before the invention of coinage; some cultures traded beads as a form of money.

Word: Coinage
Meaning: coins (in a collective sense) 
Example: The country’s coinage has a picture of its first president on the face of the currency.

Word: Coincide
Meaning: to be similar or happen during the same time period
Example: The grand opening of the gift shop will coincide with the winter festival so residents can begin their holiday shopping.

Word: Coincidence
Meaning: a condition in which at least two things happen concurrently without planning
Example: It’s not a coincidence my husband’s flirtatious ex-wife went to visit him while I was out of town.

Word: Coincident
Meaning: at the same time or in harmony with something
Example: It was coincident when Harmony and Hazel broke their violin string at the exact same time.

Word: Coincidental
Meaning: resulting from chance or unplanned circumstances
Example: Having not even known that my friend was back in town; our meeting at the local grocery store was completely coincidental.

Word: Coincidentally
Meaning: happening by or resulting from coincidence; by chance
Example: Ashley first met David coincidentally; and she used the opportunity to ask him out on a date.

Word: Coined
Meaning: invented or created a new phrase
Example: Before someone coined the word “bae” to mean one’s girlfriend/boyfriend; it was only a Danish word for poop.

Word: Coitus
Meaning: sex or fornication
Example: It is illegal to engage in coitus in the United States and most of the first world without the consent of your partner.

Word: Cold War
Meaning: a constant nonviolent state of hostility between the Soviet Union and the United States that began shortly after World War II
Example: For many; the growth of weapons of mass destruction was the most worrying part of the cold war between the Soviet Union and the U.S.

Word: Cold
Meaning: a state of being in which one feels adversely affected by temperatures below a certain level of comfort
Example: Needless to say I felt rather cold when I stepped outside into the snow to grab the newspaper without anything other than my pajamas on.

Word: Collaborate
Meaning: to labor with individuals or a single person to complete a task
Example: The software engineers will collaborate on the project to make sure it is available to the customer on the agreed upon date.

Word: Collaboratively
Meaning: in a way that involves two or more people working together towards a common goal
Example: Working collaboratively; the two musicians were able to come up with a song that fits both of their styles.

Word: Collage
Meaning: an artistic creation made by sticking many different things together
Example: Creating a collage out of all her childhood pictures; Jaleesa used her artistic ability helped her make the perfect mother’s gift.

Word: Collapse
Meaning: to fall down suddenly due to pressure
Example: The reasons for the sudden collapse of the Mayan civilization is still unknown.

Word: Collate
Meaning: to put information in a specific order
Example: The software program allows people to collate their photographs by dates.

Word: Collateral
Meaning: something taken as a guarantee for a debt
Example: Since my sister has a habit of keeping my clothes; I now ask for collateral when she wants to borrow something.

Word: Colleague 
Meaning: someone who shares the interests or work of another 
Example: It would be great if my colleague came to work on time so I would not have to answer her phone calls.

Word: Collection
Meaning: an assembly of items that are perceived as having cultural value; acquired as a set by a collector
Example: My dad has a collection of old books he considers to be classics; many of which are series that I’ve never even heard of.

Word: Collectively
Meaning: as a unit or group
Example: If we work collectively as a group; we can have the project complete before the deadline.

Word: Collegial 
Meaning: associated with a pleasant relationship between co-workers or peers
Example: Because my roommate and I get along in a collegial manner; we are the best of pals.

Word: Collegiate
Meaning: associated with college life
Example: The collegiate party was filled with students from the local university.

Word: Collide
Meaning: to crash or smack into one another
Example: The snowy conditions caused the car to collide into the back of the semi-truck.

Word: Collision
Meaning: a crash in which objects collide into each other
Example: After the collision; a tow truck was called to pick up the damaged vehicles.

Word: Colloquial
Meaning: casual and conversational language
Example: Because a job interview is such a serious event; one should not speak to the interviewer in a colloquial tone.

Word: Colloquy
Meaning:  a serious chat or conversation
Example: From my bedroom; I could hear portions of my parents’ colloquy about my poor grades.

Word: Collude
Meaning: to conspire for a secret purpose
Example: Breaking antitrust laws; company executives began to collude with one another to make sure their illegal doings were under wraps.

Word: Collusion
Meaning: a private agreement for a dishonest purpose
Example: Under the collusion between the crooked cops and the drug dealers; the officers receive fifteen percent of the drug profits.

Word: Collywobbles
Meaning: a feeling of fear or nervousness
Example: Feeling collywobbles in her tummy; the nervous singer shook as she took the stage.

Word: Colon
Meaning: the longest part of the large intestine that connects to the rectum
Example: The patient learned that colon cancer had taken over her large intestine and that the organ wasn’t working properly.

Word: Colonel
Meaning: a high Army rank above Lieutenant Colonel but below Brigadier General
Example: The Colonel is a high enough rank to be in charge of a major military offensive; but he still answers to the generals above him.

Word: Colonialism
Meaning: the instance of one country dominating another territory and its citizens
Example: England’s colonialism of the new world was brought to an end by the American revolution.

Word: Colonist
Meaning: a founder of a colony; a person who settles in a new colony
Example: A simple colonist alerted the citizens with the oncoming British soldiers; and he became known as Paul Revere.

Word: Colonization
Meaning: the process of establishing a colony
Example: British colonization of America first began in Jamestown; Virginia; eventually extending throughout the Americas.

Word: Colonnade
Meaning: architectural pillars in front of a building
Example: Many ancient cities’ buildings have a colonnade stretching across the front for tourists to enter through.

Word: Colony
Meaning: an area where individuals who have something in common live as a group
Example: Since Elaine is very modest; we know she will not join us at the nudist colony.

Word: Color
Meaning: to dye something a particular hue or shade
Example: Meredith wants to color her hair red but doesn’t know if it will look natural if she changes its tone.

Word: Colossal 
Meaning: extremely large in size
Example: It took twelve men to carry the colossal pie to the pie festival.

Word: Colossus
Meaning: a thing or person that is very large or gigantic
Example: It seemed like overnight; the mom-and-pop shop had grown into a colossus that rakes in millions every year.

Word: Column
Meaning: a-pillar or post that stands upright and is shaped like a cylinder
Example: Each column of the tall plantation home had lights wrapped around its cylindrical form.

Word: Comatose
Meaning: unconscious and unable to communicate
Example: The car crash victim was comatose and unable to talk while on the stretcher.

Word: Combat
Meaning: ake action to reduce; destroy; or prevent
Example: In order to combat global warming; we must try to recycle; waste less; conserve energy; and burn fewer fossil fuels.

Word: Combatant
Meaning: an armed fighter
Example: Carey loved hearing his grandfather’s stories about when he was a combatant in WWII.

Word: Combative
Meaning: ready to fight; argumentative
Example: As the angry patient became more combative; the nurse gave her a shot of medicine to help her relax.

Word: Combination
Meaning: the result of the grouping together of several different things
Example: The kids like to eat pizza that has a large combination of different toppings.

Word: Combine
Meaning: to bring two or more things or activities together; to unite
Example: For a quick breakfast I often combine milk with cereal.

Word: Combustible
Meaning: something that is susceptible to igniting or being caught on fire
Example: Paper is a combustible material that you could easily light on fire with a match or a lighter.

Word: Combustion
Meaning: the process of burning
Example: The combustion of leaves can lead to a forest fire if not handled properly.

Word: Comeback
Meaning: a return to popularity; success; etc. after an extended period of obscurity
Example: Shoulder pads went out with the eighties; but I think it's making a comeback.

Word: Comedy
Meaning: professional entertainment designed to make the audience laugh; typically through jokes or satire
Example: I prefer to watch comedy movies because I prefer laughing over being scared or involved in a suspenseful action scene.

Word: Comeliness
Meaning: attractiveness; beauty
Example: The vain woman’s mother kept insisting that comeliness is in the eye of the beholder; but the daughter insisted a good plastic surgeon is key.

Word: Comely
Meaning: attractive to the eye
Example: Jake offered to buy the comely blonde a drink.

Word: Comer
Meaning: one showing promise of attaining success
Example: Starting up a comer advertisement agency; it was obvious that the entrepreneur’s business was headed for success.

Word: Comestible
Meaning: an item of food
Example: An Italian based comestible; pizza is one of my all-time favorite foods.

Word: Comet
Meaning: a celestial body; generally with a tail located in the solar system
Example: Astronomers discovered a comet and as it comes closer to earth; it becomes apparent it may strike our planet.

Word: Cometh
Meaning: a form of the word come that is third-person singular simple present indicative form but is archaic and rarely used
Example: If you refuse to pay what you owe; to your door; the tax man cometh.

Word: Comeuppance
Meaning: just punishment that someone deserves
Example: The judge handed down comeuppance to the deserving rapist.

Word: Comfort
Meaning: to relieve the distress or suffering of; to provide relief to
Example: Ruth’s was able to comfort her best friend after her cancer diagnosis with her supportive words.

Word: Comical
Meaning: funny; amusing
Example: My husband found the show comical; while I just thought it was silly.

Word: Comically
Meaning: in a funny or joking way
Example: The class clown would answer questions comically usually by explaining a situation that could never happen.

Word: Comity
Meaning: mutual courtesy and respect
Example: Comity is hard to find in the office since all of the bankers seem to value cutthroat actions over respect.

Word: Command
Meaning: to order someone to do something
Example: The King will command the men to be executed and the orders will be carried out.

Word: Commandeer
Meaning: to take control of something
Example: When the police officer noticed his tires were punctured; he made the decision to commandeer a civilian’s vehicle.

Word: Commander-in-chief
Meaning: the supreme commander in a country’s armed forces
Example: The President of the United States is the Commander-in-chief of its armed forces; the supreme commander above all others.

Word: Commander
Meaning: a person in control of a group of people; especially military groups
Example: The commander ordered the troops to turn back and leave the area.

Word: Commandment
Meaning: a divine rule handed down by God
Example: Because he didn’t fall the commandment ordained by God; the sinner was sentenced to death.

Word: Comme il faut
Meaning: conforming and proper; behaving appropriately in public
Example: Comme il faut laws support proper public behavior and do not allow over the top displays of affection.

Word: Commemorate
Meaning: to do something special as a means of tribute or recognition 
Example: The general will commemorate the soldier’s act of heroism by presenting him with a medal.

Word: Commence
Meaning: to get under way 
Example: Since the meeting will commence at three o’clock exactly; do not be late!

Word: Commencement
Meaning: graduation ceremony in which diplomas or degrees are confirmed
Example: Preparing her commencement speech; the Valedictorian wanted to find a moving quote to speak to her fellow graduates.

Word: Commend
Meaning: to express approval of a person's achievements
Example: As the principal of the high school; it is my pleasure to commend all of this year’s graduates for their achievements.

Word: Commendable
Meaning: deserving honor; respect; or admiration
Example: I find it commendable that the department store would agree to accept returned merchandise; 3 months after it was purchased.

Word: Commendation
Meaning: an award or honor
Example: Receiving a commendation in recognition of his volunteer services was the highlight of the fireman’s day.

Word: Commensalism
Meaning: a relationship between two distinct organisms in which one of the things obtains a benefit of some sort and the other organism neither gains nor loses anything 
Example: A remora attaching itself to a shark for transportation purposes is a prime example of commensalism.

Word: Commensurate
Meaning: in proportion; equal
Example: You will get a salary increase commensurate with your additional responsibilities and work.

Word: Commentary
Meaning: descriptive remarks based on someone’s viewpoint
Example: Every commentary that was made after the woman’s speech was positive since she spoke so eloquently.

Word: Commerce
Meaning: actions associated with selling and buying services and goods
Example:  E-commerce or electronic commerce involves the buying and selling of goods and services online.

Word: Commiserate
Meaning: express or feel sympathy or pity
Example: Until you have walked in his shoes; you cannot commiserate with him.

Word: Commission
Meaning: an amount of money given as a payment from the company for completing a business deal
Example: Once the saleslady rung up the multiple items at the retail store; she smiled because she would make a hefty commission from the sale.

Word: Commit
Meaning: to make one’s self obliged to do something or bound to a promise
Example: The man regretted his decision to commit himself to marriage and wished he had never taken his vows.

Word: Commitment
Meaning: the act of dedicating yourself to a cause or activity; dedication
Example: Passing tests in medical school is important; but one also requires commitment to see things through to the end.

Word: Committee
Meaning: a group of people appointed or elected to work on project or study a problem
Example: Each committee member was given a different task to complete for the upcoming Relay for Life Event.

Word: Commodious
Meaning: spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable
Example: I finally found an inexpensive hotel with rooms that are commodious enough for the whole family.

Word: Commodity 
Meaning: an item that can be purchased and retailed
Example: Oil is the country’s most profitable commodity.

Word: Common law
Meaning: a law that has become common practice and is widely accepted
Example: The couple decided on a common law marriage where their union was not blessed by priest or presided over by a member of the court.

Word: Common
Meaning: happening every day or ordinary
Example: A common activity for new mothers is to calm and soothe their crying babies since babies cry for many different reasons on a daily basis.

Word: Commonality
Meaning: the condition of sharing certain characteristics
Example: The twins have only one commonality; they both have bright red hair.

Word: Commoner
Meaning: an ordinary person who has no special title and isn’t of royal blood
Example: Because she was a commoner; no one expected that Cinderella would be the one to end up with Prince Charming.

Word: Commonplace
Meaning: ordinary; not unusual
Example: Even though my sister and I equally shared the car; it was commonplace for the car to be missing from the driveway.

Word: Commonsensical
Meaning: based on sound reasoning or information
Example: Though the information was commonsensical; some of the students still didn’t understand it.

Word: Commonwealth
Meaning: an independent country; community or state
Example: According to census records her home state is the fastest growing commonwealth in the nation.

Word: Commotion
Meaning: noisy confusion
Example: There was a commotion among the sheep when the dog broke loose from its leash.

Word: Communal
Meaning: used to describe something that is shared by or available to all members of a specific community
Example: The communal pool at the community center is open to everyone that lives in the neighborhood.

Word: Commune 
Meaning: a community in which individuals live together and share work and rewards
Example: When the people realized they shared common goals and work ethics; they developed a commune in which to live.

Word: Communicable
Meaning: referring to a disease that can be transmitted or given to others
Example: Any disease that can be transferred to another person; be it through touch; air travel; or blood; is considered communicable.

Word: Communicate
Meaning: to share information or ideas through words; movement; or writing
Example: The twins use their own language to communicate; one that even their own parents don’t understand.

Word: Communication
Meaning: the ability or act of talking with another person either in person or through some other medium to exchange information
Example: The campers were cut off from communication with their friends and family members when their cellphones lost service deep in the woods.

Word: Communism
Meaning: a financial and political system in which the government controls all of a country’s major resources and distributes them according to need
Example: One of the benefits of communism is free healthcare for everyone.

Word: Commute
Meaning: to travel to and from work on a regular basis; typically from home
Example: My commute takes me about twenty minutes every day; so if I want to arrive to work on time I have to wake up at least forty minutes before I have to be there.

Word: Commute
Meaning: to travel a considerable distance between home and work on a regular basis
Example: Because my place of work is so far away; I have to commute for over an hour every single day to make it to work and back home again.

Word: Commuter
Meaning: a person who regularly travels a great distance to work
Example: Jake wasn’t thrilled to become a commuter; but the pay was worth the hour and 15 minute drive from home.

Word: Compact
Meaning: condensed; compressed
Example: The compact wagon was much more condensed than a full-size SUV.

Word: Compaction
Meaning: the process of making more compact or densely packed together
Example: The soil that was added to the planter had to be light so that compaction wouldn’t occur and crush the roots.

Word: Companion
Meaning: someone you spend a lot of time with
Example: Sometimes; the best companion for an elderly man is an obedient and calm dog.

Word: Companion
Meaning: a person who accompanies another person while traveling or doing other tasks
Example: The service dog acts as a companion to the blind man and follows him everywhere he goes.

Word: Company
Meaning: a person or group of people seen as pleasant or enjoyable to be around
Example: My brother has always been exceptionally good company; since we are around the same age and grew up spending time together.

Word: Comparable
Meaning: having features in common with something else
Example: Finding a hotel with comparable amenities at half the price proved difficult for the travelers.

Word: Comparative advantage
Meaning: the ability of an individual or group to carry out a particular economic activity such as making a specific product more efficiently than another activity
Example: It is a comparative advantage for countries like Iceland who have a large supply of fish to export seafood.

Word: Comparative
Meaning: relative; in comparison to something else
Example: Because they are the three major monotheistic religions; Islam; Christianity; and Judaism are comparative faiths.

Word: Comparatively
Meaning: to a moderate degree when compared to something else
Example: Mistreating others because you have a comparatively higher income is morally wrong.

Word: Compare
Meaning: to note similarities between things
Example: Auditors will compare the two files to see if they equal up.

Word: Comparison
Meaning: the act of telling what two or more things have in common
Example: A comparison of the two books showed that the main characters had a lot in common.

Word: Compartment
Meaning: a separate division or section; often of a room; chamber; or container
Example: The pyramid contained a secret compartment where the body of the pharaoh and all his possessions were stored.

Word: Compartmentalize
Meaning: to separate and isolate things into compartments or categories
Example: We are taught to compartmentalize our work and personal lives; but sometimes it is hard to separate the two.

Word: Compass
Meaning: a round; arrowed device that always points north and is used to find direction
Example: Explorers used the compass to find their way to the island.

Word: Compassion
Meaning: awareness of an individual’s suffering
Example: The woman’s compassion for others led her to become a nun.

Word: Compassionate
Meaning: displaying concern and/or understanding towards other people
Example: The compassionate man donated half of his yearly salary to local charities.

Word: Compatible
Meaning: able to occur together or exist without conflict
Example: While Fido is compatible with dogs; he does not get along with cats.

Word: Compatriot
Meaning: somebody from one's own country
Example: It put Juan at ease to be sitting next to a fellow compatriot on the plane trip from Spain to the United States.

Word: Compel
Meaning: to press or force to have something done 
Example: Sometimes I have to compel my daughter into doing her chores by threatening to keep her allowance.

Word: Compelling
Meaning: captivating; enthralling
Example: The music was so compelling the snake stopped watching its prey and began to sway.

Word: Compendious
Meaning: something that has been explained in a concise or brief way
Example: The small book included a short and compendious overview of the history of Feudal Japan.

Word: Compendium
Meaning: an assortment of items displayed as a set
Example: The book is nothing more than a compendium of the author’s rants against the government.

Word: Compensate 
Meaning: to give a form of payment for a good or service or as a means of making up for a misdeed 
Example: Since I paid over three hundred dollars for my dress; you cannot compensate me for its loss with a fifty dollar check.

Word: Compensation
Meaning: that which is given as payment for a service or as reimbursement for a loss or expense 
Example: If the compensation doesn't allow me to pay my bills; then I'm not interested in the job.

Word: Compete
Meaning: To try to win something such as a prize or award
Example: On Friday; our team will compete in a race against a neighboring school.

Word: Competent 
Meaning: having adequate ability or skill in a certain area
Example: Although the surgery is a difficult one; a competent surgeon will have no problem performing the operation.

Word: Competition
Meaning: a challenge for an award or prize
Example: When the spelling competition concludes; a prize will be given to the best speller.

Word: Competitive
Meaning: having a strong desire to win or be the best at something
Example: Because she’s so competitive; the tennis player can’t stand for someone else to win a match.

Word: Competitor
Meaning: one who takes part in a contest or competition
Example: Manuel was the only competitor that had ever been a part of the race before.

Word: Compilation
Meaning: a collection
Example: A compilation of family photos was on display all across the living room wall.

Word: Compile
Meaning: to bring together items and put them in one set or collection
Example: The librarian will compile popular books by African American authors and put them in a special area for Black History Month.

Word: Complacency
Meaning: a feeling of self-satisfaction that makes one unaware of one’s environment
Example: Because of the complacency of the guards; enemy spies were able to sneak into the castle.

Word: Complacent
Meaning: pleased; overly content
Example: I am rightfully not complacent with low quality service.

Word: Complain
Meaning: to make negative remarks about someone or something often
Example: The students complain about all the extra homework their math teacher gave them over winter break.

Word: Complaint
Meaning: a grievance; problem; difficulty or concern; the act of complaining
Example: I intend to make a formal complaint against my manager to Human Resources.

Word: Complaisant
Meaning: marked by an inclination to please or oblige
Example: Marsha’s complaisant character made her the perfect servant.

Word: Complement 
Meaning: a part that makes something perfect or complete
Example: Ketchup is a must-have complement for French fries.

Word: Complete
Meaning: to finish; to conclude; to reach the end 
Example: The investigation into the store robbery is complete once the criminal confessed.

Word: Complex
Meaning: difficult and complicated
Example: A complex problem surfaced during the faculty meeting when there were not enough staff members to serve food that day to the hundreds of customers who showed up.

Word: Complexion
Meaning: the tone and look of the skin of someone’s face
Example: Her smooth complexion made the model irresistible to every cosmetic company who saw her face.

Word: Complexity
Meaning: the state of being difficult or complicated
Example: Joshua became quite nervous when he noticed the complexity of the math problems on his final exam.

Word: Compliance 
Meaning: the act of obeying rules
Example: Because the prisoner had a long history of compliance; the warden gave him extra outside privileges.

Word: Compliant
Meaning: observing the requirements and rules
Example: The teacher was shocked when her normally rebellious class became compliant.

Word: Complicate
Meaning: make something more difficult or confusing by causing it to be more complex
Example: On shows like Chopped and Cupcake Wars; judges like to complicate the challenge by adding an exotic ingredient that many chefs haven’t used before.

Word: Complicated
Meaning: difficult and involving many different parts
Example: The first cake recipe was too complicated; so I decided to choose a simpler one.

Word: Complication
Meaning: a difficulty or problem
Example: The surgery was completed with only one complication and that difficulty was quickly overcome.

Word: Complicity
Meaning: the condition of being involved in an act of wrongdoing
Example: Your complicity in the crime is probably going to earn you five years in prison.

Word: Compliment
Meaning: a few words of praise: saying that someone or something is good in some way
Example: I just wanted to compliment you for the wonderful speech you gave tonight.

Word: Comply
Meaning: to obey or be in agreement with a policy or rule
Example: The man was arrested because he refused to comply with the airline’s no smoking policy.

Word: Component
Meaning: a small section of a bigger part of a whole thing
Example: The only component of the sandwich that I do not like is the tomato; but the turkey; lettuce and mayonnaise are fine.

Word: Comport
Meaning: to fit with or act in a certain fashion
Example: Because the children do not comport well in a formal dining atmosphere; we have placed them at a kids’ table in the kitchen.

Word: Comportment
Meaning: conduct; manners
Example: Because my brother lacks good comportment; he’s probably going to offend someone during the wedding banquet.

Word: Compose
Meaning: to put something together; like a letter; song; poem; speech; etc.
Example: Mozart would compose many famous musical pieces in his lifetime.

Word: Composed
Meaning: calm and showing no signs of nervousness
Example: Trying to remain composed as she approached the judges; the beauty contestant took a deep breath and gave a sweet smile.

Word: Composite
Meaning: comprised of various elements 
Example: The composite test score is the sum of the math and vocabulary scores.

Word:  Composition 
Meaning: the overall structure of something
Example: The chemical composition of water is two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom.

Word: Compost
Meaning: decayed material (i.e.; leaves; food peelings) that is used as a fertilizer
Example: Al created a compost pile in his garden and used the decaying leaves and grass to help his trees grow.

Word: Composure 
Meaning: peace of mind
Example: When Jane’s wedding dress ripped; she kept her composure and walked down the aisle with her head held high.

Word: Compound
Meaning: a property that has multiple buildings in one area
Example: The entire compound was secured by fences and security systems that served to protect all of those inside.

Word: Compound
Meaning: a thing that is composed of two or more separate parts
Example: The compound sentence was made of two different phrases.

Word: Comprehend
Meaning: to mentally grasp the meaning or reason behind something
Example: Since the text was written in a foreign language; I could not comprehend its meaning.

Word: Comprehension
Meaning: understanding; grasp of knowledge
Example: Comprehension of the passage required the student to read the text several times.

Word: Comprehensive
Meaning: comprising a wide range of things
Example: Because I want the car completely repainted; I have purchased the comprehensive auto package.

Word: Compress
Meaning: to flatten something by pressure
Example: Wearing a girdle to compress the pudge on her stomach; the vain woman was much happier with a tummy that appeared flat.

Word: Compression
Meaning: the action of squeezing something into a smaller form or space
Example: Compression occurs when you squeeze something large into something small; like a pillow.

Word: Comprise
Meaning: to be made up of 
Example: Women and children comprise seventy percent of the hospital’s patients.

Word: Comprised
Meaning: to be formed or made from
Example: Rick’s sculptures are comprised of copper and aluminum.

Word: Compromise
Meaning: an arrangement reached when two parties agree to make allowances
Example: In a monetary compromise; the debtor agreed to pay the bill in full if the lender gave him a payment plan.

Word: Comptroller
Meaning: a person in charge of supervising the quality of the accounting and financial reporting of a corporation or public body
Example: The comptroller released an audit that outlined all of the discrepancies he found in the mayor’s office’s financial records.

Word: Compulsion 
Meaning: an illogical need to perform an action
Example: Along with my obsessive compulsive disorder comes the compulsion to repeatedly check doors to ensure they are locked.

Word: Compulsive
Meaning: uncontrolled or reactive and irresistible behavior
Example: My wife is a compulsive shopper spending more than what we can afford.

Word: Compulsory
Meaning: not having an option; required
Example: Because education is not compulsory in all countries; there are many children who do not attend school.

Word: Compunction
Meaning: anxiety arising from awareness of guilt
Example: The serial killer showed no compunction when his guilty verdict was announced.

Word: Computation
Meaning: the act of mathematically calculating something
Example: Computation of the math problem was too difficult to take on without a calculator.

Word: Compute
Meaning: to calculate or work out
Example: In order to compute the correct numbers; Leanna needed a calculator.

Word: Comrade
Meaning: one who shares an experience or duty
Example: Police officers came from across the country to gather at the funeral of their comrade.

Word: Con
Meaning: to trick or mislead someone
Example: The traveling salesman made good on his promise to con every housewife in the neighborhood.

Word: Concatenation
Meaning: taking two separately located things and placing them side by side so that they become two things
Example: The student’s concatenation of the words ‘air’ and ‘plane’ formed the word airplane.

Word: Concave
Meaning: shaped in an inward manner like a bowl’s interior
Example: While a convex lens turns outward; a concave lens bends inwardly.

Word: Conceal
Meaning: to put out of sight or hide from scrutiny
Example: Danielle tried to conceal her bruises with skin-colored foundation.

Word: Concede
Meaning: to admit something is true or to admit defeat in a contest
Example: Since he was trailing behind; the politician decided to concede the election to his opponent.

Word: Conceit
Meaning: arrogant pride in oneself
Example: There was so much conceit in his voice I couldn’t help but wonder if he swooned over his own image in the mirror every morning.

Word: Conceited
Meaning: holding an overblown view of one’s assets
Example: The conceited man would not stop talking about himself.

Word: Conceivable
Meaning: capable of being conceived or imagined; possible; credible; thinkable.
Example: It is quite conceivable that in 100 years from now; the world will be an unrecognizable place; due to the rapid advancements in technology.

Word: Conceive 
Meaning: to come up with a plan or idea
Example: Our team leader is counting on us to conceive a fix for the server error before our client deadline.

Word: Conceived
Meaning: imagined; visualized
Example: The idea for the voice app was conceived while the inventor’s father was in the hospital.

Word: Concentrate
Meaning: to focus all of your attention or mental effort to the thing you are doing
Example: With his sister’s music blaring in the background; it was impossible for Dante to concentrate on his piano lesson.

Word: Concentration
Meaning: the act of focusing one’s attention on something
Example: My concentration was disturbed by the sound of a lawnmower outside my office window.

Word: Concentric
Meaning: sharing an axis or center
Example: The two circles are concentric because they share a center location.

Word: Concept 
Meaning: an idea or notion 
Example: Fortunately; the client loves our new advertising concept.

Word: Conception
Meaning: the birth of an idea or plan
Example: It was obvious from the conception of the fundraiser the event would not be profitable.

Word: Conceptual
Meaning: of; or relating to concepts or ideas; existing in the imagination
Example: A good writer uses conceptual thinking to produce his work.

Word: Conceptualize
Meaning: to come up with the idea or vision for something
Example: During the meeting; we were asked to conceptualize a marketing plan for our client.

Word: Concern
Meaning: a specific worry or distress
Example: One concern of the mother is that her child seems not to be gaining much weight.

Word: Concert
Meaning: a musical performance put on by one or more musicians/singers
Example: I lost out concert tickets; so we won’t be able to go to the musical we’ve been dying to see.

Word: Concerted
Meaning: in group agreement; working as a team
Example: A concerted effort from community residents led to the formation of an effective neighborhood watch.

Word: Concession
Meaning: an item or privilege that is given
Example: Since the developer could not give the landowner his desired concession; he was not able to buy the land for the new subdivision.

Word: Conciliate
Meaning: make calm and content; placate 
Example: Before mediating between the two parties; the judge attempted to conciliate the plaintiff to prevent unnecessary litigation.

Word: Conciliatory
Meaning: To regain (friendship or goodwill) by pleasant behavior; to reconcile
Example: The mediator made a conciliatory statement which helped the two parties find common ground.

Word: Concise
Meaning: short; not lengthy
Example: The concise exam was greatly appreciated by the exhausted students who had studied all night for the test.

Word: Conclave
Meaning: a private meeting in which the discussions are kept secret
Example: The conclave of politicians was held on a Friday; giving the attendees the weekend to mull over the sordid details of their discussions.

Word: Conclude
Meaning: to come to a decision or judgment
Example: The teacher will probably conclude I am not listening to her lecture because I have my eyes closed.

Word: Conclusion
Meaning: the end; finish; or finale of an event
Example: The conclusion of our meeting came at seven o’clock; an hour after we had started and a full thirty minutes longer than we had planned.

Word: Conclusive 
Meaning: offering a conclusion
Example: According to the detectives; there is no conclusive evidence that links the suspect to the crime.

Word: Concoct
Meaning: to make something using cleverness or ability
Example: My mother is a talented chef who can concoct a gourmet meal out of sandwich meats.

Word: Concoction
Meaning: something created from scratch
Example: I could not wait for the bartender to finish my delicious concoction.

Word: Concomitant
Meaning: happening at the same time as something else
Example: Because the contractor and decorator agreed to concomitant work schedules in the final stages of construction; the house was ready to show well ahead of time.

Word: Concord 
Meaning: a state of accord or agreement
Example: After days of deliberation; the jury finally reached concord and was able to give the judge a verdict.

Word: Concordance
Meaning: agreement; accord
Example: The newest scientific data was in concordance with the last test and also the one before that.

Word: Concourse
Meaning: a large open space inside or in front of a public building where people can gather such as a train station or airport
Example: Once travelers pass through the airport security screenings; they’re allowed to enter the concourse.

Word: Concrete
Meaning: solid; real; or tangible; something physical that can be touched
Example: While thought may not be tangible; the human brain is a very concrete thing that can be touched and felt.

Word: Concubine
Meaning: a woman who lives with a man as a mistress but has a lower status than his wife/wives
Example: Though he loved his concubine the most; the king decided long ago just to have one wife.

Word: Concupiscence
Meaning: an intense desire; often describing a sexual craving
Example: Jared shouldn't get married until he can rein in his concupiscence and control his sexual cravings.

Word: Concur
Meaning: to agree with something
Example: With no other facts on hand; I can only concur with your statement.

Word: Concurrence
Meaning: when things are happening at the same time
Example: During the sentencing; the judge ruled that the guilty party’s two sentences would run in concurrence and be served at the same time.

Word: Concurrent powers
Meaning: governing powers that are shared by both two different divisions
Example: The agencies have concurrent powers and share spending responsibilities 50/50.

Word: Concurrent
Meaning: occurring at the same point in time
Example: Since my anniversary and my mother-in-law’s birthday are both on August 12; the two events are concurrent.

Word: Concussion
Meaning: the result of a really hard hit to the head; causing a temperary loss of function
Example: Falling onto the hiker’s head; the boulder caused a concussion.

Word: Condemn 
Meaning: reprimand harshly 
Example: According to the scripture; God will condemn and punish the wicked.

Word: Condense
Meaning: to decrease size or volume
Example: John managed to condense his education and previous job skills to one page on his resume.

Word: Condescending
Meaning: showing that you are more important than others
Example: "Rick said this condescending remark at work today: ""I'm better than all of you!"""

Word: Condign
Meaning: fair; fitting; and deserved
Example: The judge’s job was to make sure that the sentence was condign for each crime.

Word: Condiment
Meaning: a sauce such as mustard or ketchup that adds flavor to food
Example: Condiment packets were handed out to every person who wanted ketchup on their hotdog.

Word: Condition
Meaning: a disorder or illness
Example: Although she tried to hide her skin condition under make-up; the girl’s eczema caused her to be picked on in class.

Word: Conditional 
Meaning: restricted by a stipulation
Example: The first sale is conditional and will be cancelled if the seller cannot produce a thousand units within a week’s time.

Word: Condolence 
Meaning: a show of sympathy or comfort
Example: I offered my neighbor my condolence when I heard of his mother’s death.

Word: Condone
Meaning: to accept and allow
Example: We will not condone disorderly conduct at church.

Word: Conducive
Meaning: to cause or produce something
Example: The declining number of available positions are conducive for the highest unemployment rate in decades.

Word: Conduct
Meaning: the way one acts or carries themselves
Example: Because we are going to be visiting a nursing home; we hope all of you students will conduct yourselves in a kind and polite manner.

Word: Conduction
Meaning: the process by which sound waves travel through another material
Example: The conduction of sound through the air is what allows us to hear all of the noise around us; since we wouldn’t hear anything if the sound didn’t travel to our ears from its source.

Word: Conductive
Meaning: associated with a material that carries heat or electricity
Example: The conductive wiring may feel warm to the touch because of the electricity it’s carrying.

Word: Conductor
Meaning: a person who is in charge of a group of performers or ticket collection on a train
Example: During the performance; pay attention to the conductor to ensure you’re playing in tune with other orchestra members.

Word: Conduit
Meaning: a means of getting something to another place or person
Example: For many slaves; the underground railroad was a conduit of freedom.

Word: Confabulate
Meaning: to chat or talk to someone in an informal way
Example: Chatty Cathy will confabulate with anyone willing to hold a conversation with her.

Word: Confederacy
Meaning: a group that has formed to participate in an activity or to work towards a common cause; term generally used in the United States to refer to the Southern states during the Civil War period 
Example: To unite against union forces; the Southern states formed a confederacy.

Word: Confer
Meaning: to discuss
Example: Since the doctors are unfamiliar with my symptoms; they will confer on a diagnosis.

Word: Conference
Meaning: a formal meeting in which people gather to talk about specific ideas or problems
Example: A conference was held last weekend to teach struggling writers how to improve their skills.

Word: Confess
Meaning: to admit that you are at fault or have committed some wrongdoing
Example: Many people go to a priest to confess the things that are wracking them with guilt; and by doing so alleviate themselves from that guilt.

Word: Confession
Meaning: an admission of something one has done that was wrong or illegal
Example: The kid’s killer confession shocked the small town who never thought him capable of such a crime.

Word: Confidant 
Meaning: a person with whom you can share your secrets
Example: Because my husband is my confidant; I feel as though I can tell him anything without the information becoming public.

Word: Confide
Meaning: to share information in secret
Example: I often confide my secrets to my best friend because I know she will not tell them to anyone.

Word: Confidence
Meaning: a belief that you can trust something or someone fully
Example: The wife’s confidence in her husband was shattered after she discovered his affair.

Word: Confidentiality
Meaning: rules regarding the keeping of something secret or private
Example: Even with confidentiality rules in place; company workers still shared private information.

Word: Confinement
Meaning: being locked inside or forcibly kept inside somewhere and not allowed to leave
Example: By consenting to confinement in an institution; the patient hoped that she would finally get the medical treatment she so desperately needed.

Word: Confines
Meaning: boundaries or limits of a space
Example: It did not take the dog long to escape the confines of the backyard.

Word: Confirm
Meaning: verify truth or accuracy
Example: Bank tellers tried to confirm the man’s deposit but showed no record of the transaction.

Word: Confirmation
Meaning: confirmation is the action of confirming something
Example: A confirmation code was sent by email verifying the online furniture purchase.

Word: Confirmed
Meaning: describing someone who is firmly established in a set of ways or practice
Example: The young man is a confirmed bachelor; having been single for almost three years now and not looking to marry anytime soon.

Word: Confiscate 
Meaning: to take for a specific reason
Example: The bar owner will confiscate your keys if you are too drunk to drive.

Word: Conflagration
Meaning: conflict or war
Example: It seems as though the conflagration in the Middle East has been going on for centuries.

Word: Conflate
Meaning: to blend two or more things into one whole
Example: Every time she gets a cold; Sandy seems to conflate it with some other illness.

Word: Conflict 
Meaning: a disagreement that may be mental; verbal; physical; or associated with scheduling or the accuracy of information
Example: As a teenager; Danielle’s greatest internal conflict is which pair of shoes to wear with which outfit.

Word: Conflicting
Meaning: contradictory; inconsistent
Example: Laughing while she cried; the woman had conflicting emotions about her daughter leaving for college.

Word: Confluence 
Meaning: a circumstance where two things merge or occur simultaneously
Example: The confluence of warm and cold temperatures is going to create a powerful storm.

Word: Conform
Meaning: to fit in with standard practices or behaviors
Example: Because of Janet’s low self-esteem; she tried to conform alongside the cool kids by imitating their fashion styles.

Word: Conformist
Meaning: an individual who follows accepted practices
Example: As someone who refuses to be a conformist; I go out of my way to take the path less frequently chosen.

Word: Conformity 
Meaning: the condition of being like everything or everyone else
Example: Jared did not fit in well in the private school because he rebelled against the conformity of having to dress like everyone else.

Word: Confound
Meaning: to mix up or confuse
Example: If the nurse does not read the labels; she will confound the medications and possibly harm patients.

Word: Confounded 
Meaning: mystified; perplexed
Example: The detectives were confounded by the puzzling riddles left behind by the kidnapper.

Word: Confrere
Meaning: a fellow profession or fraternity member
Example: The student quarreled with his confrere about who would be president of the fraternity.

Word: Confront
Meaning: to face or stand up to
Example: After arriving home to a broken window; the woman decided to confront the babysitter about what happened.

Word: Confrontation
Meaning: the act of confronting or challenging another especially face to face
Example: She had a heated confrontation with her parents over homework.

Word: Confucianism
Meaning: an ancient philosophy of respect and kindness based on the teachings of Confucius
Example: Confucianism promotes the idea that people should be both virtuous and honest.

Word: Confuse
Meaning: to mix up; to puzzle; to bewilder
Example: I always confuse my neighbor’s twin girls as they look and dress alike.

Word: Confusion
Meaning: the state of uncertainty and not understanding what is going on
Example: As a way to avoid confusion while traveling; Johnny made sure to write down clear directions.

Word: Confute
Meaning: to prove something wrong
Example: Certain that she could find evidence; the young lawyer set out to confute the witness’s story against her client.

Word: Congeal
Meaning: to change from a liquid to solid state
Example: They refrigerated the liquid gelatin so it would congeal before they ate it.

Word: Congenial
Meaning: pleasant and enjoyable
Example: Mark is a congenial host who always makes everyone feel welcome.

Word: Congenital
Meaning: existing since birth
Example: Due to a congenital heart condition that ran in their family; the parents were worried about their unborn child.

Word: Congeries
Meaning: a jumbled collection of things
Example: The woman’s spare room was littered with a congeries of boxes and bags.

Word: Congested
Meaning: crowded and blocked
Example: Moving through the congested city; the cars honked their horns loudly as pedestrians darted across the roadway.

Word: Congestion
Meaning: accumulation; buildup
Example: My doctor gave me antibiotics after my nasal congestion turn into a sinus infection.

Word: Conglomerate
Meaning: a big corporation composed of several small firms that operate as a single business
Example: The billionaire’s conglomerate includes restaurants; convenience stores; and a chain of hotels.

Word: Congregate
Meaning: to gather as a unit or group
Example: During the summer teenagers often congregate at the beach.

Word: Congregation 
Meaning: a group of people who worship together in a certain place
Example: The congregation was shocked when its pastor was arrested for selling drugs.

Word: Congressional
Meaning: relating to congress
Example: A congressional convention was held to discuss federal policies.

Word: Congruent 
Meaning: matching in type or makeup
Example: Eating five chocolate bars is not congruent with your plan for losing weight.

Word: Congruity
Meaning: harmony or agreement
Example: Having worked together for years; the congruity of the team made them a shoe-in for the state competition.

Word: Congruous
Meaning: in agreement
Example: Expecting her mother to be congruous with her plans to move out; the young woman was shocked when she disapproved

Word: Coniferous
Meaning: a tree or bush bearing cones and green leaves that do not fall in the winter
Example: Even though the tree was classified as coniferous; it had a peculiar color that was far from evergreen.

Word: Conjectural
Meaning: based on thoughts and ideas not backed by evidence; hypothetical
Example: The prosecutor knew the jury would have doubts about his conjectural theory of the crime.

Word: Conjecture
Meaning: an opinion or idea formed without proof or sufficient evidence
Example: The jury rejected the attorney’s conjecture about the defendant’s motive because of a lack of evidence.

Word: Conjoin
Meaning: unite; combine
Example: With only one set of handcuffs; the officer had to conjoin the two suspects.

Word: Conjointly
Meaning: together
Example: As the octopus began seize its prey; all eight tentacles worked conjointly to finish the job.

Word: Conjugal
Meaning: of or relating to marriage; or the relationship of spouses
Example: The inmate received weekly conjugal visits from his wife.

Word: Conjugate
Meaning: to combine or fuse two things together; typically referring to words such as ‘can’t.’
Example: In the English language; we conjugate many different words for convenience; such as ‘won’t’ for ‘will not.’

Word: Conjugation
Meaning: the process of changing a verb’s form to show person; tense; number; etc
Example: In this form of conjugation; the word ‘help’ changes to ‘helped’ to show the past tense.

Word: Conjunction
Meaning: the act of joining two or more occasions together
Example: In April a city in Georgia will sponsor a city clean- up to embrace a more environmentally-conscious perspective called Living Green in conjunction with Earth Day.

Word: Conjuncture
Meaning: a combination of events that create a crisis
Example: A conjuncture of highly unlikely weather events leads to a devastating spring snowstorm.

Word: Conjuration
Meaning: a magic spell
Example: The witch’s conjuration led to many demons being released on Halloween.

Word: Conjure
Meaning: to bring into existence; sometimes by magic
Example: The magician was able to conjure a rabbit out of his empty top hat.

Word: Conjured
Meaning: summoned unexpectedly as if by magic 
Example: The woman conjured the evil spirits to get revenge upon the men who killed her daughter.

Word: Conjurer
Meaning: a person who practices magic
Example: The conjurer was able to turn the man into a monkey with a wave of her wand.

Word: Connate
Meaning: inherit beliefs or ideas existing in a person since birth
Example: The boy had a connate love for music since he was born.

Word: Connection
Meaning: one that links things together
Example: A connection from the computer to the wall allowed the secretary to access the internet.

Word: Conniption
Meaning: a fit; fuss; or tantrum
Example: My father had a conniption when he realized that I had not made all A’s for this semester of school.

Word: Connivance
Meaning: the act of allowing an illegal action to take place
Example: The clerk’s connivance allowed her to watch idly by as her supervisor stole thousands of dollars from the bank.

Word: Connive
Meaning: to conspire or plan
Example: The billionaire did not believe his greedy children would connive to murder him.

Word: Conniving
Meaning: discreetly working to complete a dishonest task
Example: Alan’s wife is a conniving woman who only married him for his money.

Word: Connoisseur
Meaning: an expert on a particular subject
Example: Because the psychologist talks to many individuals; she considers herself to be a connoisseur of people and their relationships.

Word: Connotation
Meaning: suggested or implied meaning
Example: Even though skinny technically means the same thing as slender; it has a connotation that is less favorable.

Word: Connote
Meaning: to imply something in addition to what is apparent 
Example: To an atheist; the image of a cross does not connote anything other than a perpendicular design.

Word: Connotes 
Meaning: conveying more than a literal meaning
Example: To me; the word “spouse” connotes the image of a loving partner.

Word: Connubial 
Meaning: marriage-related
Example: Watching his new bride pace back and forth in irritation; the husband hoped that their connubial argument would end soon.

Word: Conquer
Meaning: to overcome and take control of something
Example: Members of the group decided to rebel after seeing that no one was listening to their ideas.

Word: Conqueror
Meaning: a person who takes control of a place by force
Example: Alexander the Great was a conqueror who dominated Greece; Egypt; and Persia.

Word: Conquest
Meaning: victory gained through combat
Example: The diner’s conquest was to eat the entire 64 ounce steak in one sitting.

Word: Conquistador 
Meaning: an individual who overpowers others
Example: Jack is going to the historical costume party as the conquistador who conquered the island in the 17th century.

Word: Consanguinity
Meaning: a familial relationship or close connection
Example: The results of the blood test showed there was no consanguinity between Ed and the man he had always referred to as his papa.

Word: Conscience 
Meaning: the feeling that lets you know if you have done something wrong
Example: The serial killer’s lack of a conscience made it very easy for him to kill people.

Word: Conscientious
Meaning: working hard and careful to do things well
Example: Carrie is a conscientious worker who completes every task.

Word: Conscious
Meaning: aware
Example: I became conscious of the crisis when the photographs of the terrorist attack were displayed on the news.

Word: Consciously
Meaning: doing something deliberately; with awareness
Example: While on a diet; the woman chose every meal consciously.

Word: Consciousness
Meaning: cognition; awareness of the mind of its own existence in the world
Example: The stream of consciousness is what allows us to continue to think; and constantly question our place in the world.

Word: Conscription
Meaning: the system of forcing individuals to serve in the military
Example: Because of John’s moral beliefs; he refuses to take part in the conscription that would require him to bear arms.

Word: Consecrate
Meaning: to announce something is sacred or devoted to a specific purpose
Example: After high school; the young men will consecrate their lives to the church and serve as missionaries for two years.

Word: Consensus
Meaning: general agreement about something
Example: When the judge learned the jury had not reached a consensus on the defendant’s guilt; he sent the group back into the room for further discussion.

Word: Consent
Meaning: permission for something to happen
Example: Fraud charges were filed after the woman used a friend’s credit card without her consent.

Word: Consequence
Meaning: something that occurs as a result of an action
Example: My daughter’s consequence for breaking curfew was a loss of her mobile phone privileges for two weeks.

Word: Consequent
Meaning: happening as a result of something
Example: Because it was last minute; our reservations were consequent on restaurant availability.

Word: Consequential
Meaning: significant; important
Example: The partial footprint was consequential in solving the case.

Word: Consequently
Meaning: occurring as a result of an action
Example: At the hotel; we take safety very seriously; and consequently; we have security officers on duty twenty-four hours a day.

Word: Conservation
Meaning: the smart consumption of organic resources
Example: Since we only have so much water on this planet; it is important we devise conservation methods now.

Word: Conservationist
Meaning: a person who advocates for the preservation and protection of the environment
Example: The conservationist wrote letters to the loggers urging them to stop cutting down the trees.

Word: Conservatism
Meaning: a political philosophy that favors traditional values and a small government and opposes social change
Example: Countless Republicans showed up to the forum where they discussed conservatism and the perks of small government.

Word: Conservatory
Meaning: a school that focuses on music and other arts
Example: The conservatory applicant’s style of music made her a shoe-in for admission.

Word: Considerable
Meaning: of a decent size or to a great extent
Example: After receiving a considerable number of calls each day; the district attorney’s office has decided to reopen the investigation.

Word: Considerate
Meaning: concerned about the feelings and rights of other people
Example: The considerate man held his umbrella over the elderly woman’s head.

Word: Consideration
Meaning: careful thought or deliberation
Example: You must take the price into consideration before buying a car from the dealership.

Word: Consign
Meaning: to pass something to another individual so the item can be sold
Example: To make extra money; some women in my neighborhood consign their used baby garments to a clothing store.

Word: Consignment
Meaning: goods sent for sale
Example: We purchased a vintage sofa on consignment.

Word: Consist
Meaning: to be made up of or composed of
Example: Many sandwiches consist of peanut butter and jelly; but you can also make them with ham or cheese and a number of other ingredients.

Word: Consistency
Meaning: texture; feel
Example: After jaw surgery; the consistency of the patient’s food could not be solid.

Word: Consistent
Meaning: always acting or behaving in the same way; unchanging
Example: He was consistent; always arriving at the diner at exactly 9:15 every morning.

Word: Consolation
Meaning: comfort or reward given to someone who has lost something or someone 
Example: The court’s decision to award me two million dollars in damages was no consolation for the loss of my husband.

Word: Console
Meaning: to provide a person with comfort when he or she is struggling emotionally
Example: I tried to console my best friend when her husband died.

Word: Consolidate
Meaning: to put together
Example: To save money on airline fees; my husband and I will consolidate our clothes so they fit in one suitcase.

Word: Consolidation
Meaning: the act of combining several actions into one
Example: The consolidation of all our household debt into one loan was a wise choice.

Word: Consoling
Meaning: comforting and calming
Example: After the child began to cry due to being lost; an older woman was consoling him by telling him that everything would be fine.

Word: Consonance
Meaning: harmony; compatibility or agreement
Example: The consonance of the committee was clear when they voted to unanimously elect a new treasurer.

Word: Consort
Meaning: a partner or associate with whom one shares something
Example: My consort will finish the presentation for me.

Word: Consortium
Meaning: a group of individuals; businesses; or associations that work in a coordinated effort
Example: When the consortium of doctors from across the globe meet; its members will discuss the best way to contain the virus.

Word: Conspicuous
Meaning: very easy to notice
Example: It would be inappropriate for you to wear such a short conspicuous dress to your father’s funeral.

Word: Conspiracy
Meaning: the act of at least two individuals working in a covert manner to complete a task
Example: The group was arrested for conspiracy to kill a law enforcement officer.

Word: Conspirator
Meaning: part of a group that agree to do an unlawful or unethical act
Example: The evil conspirator watched with glee as his harmful plan unfolded.

Word: Conspiratorial
Meaning: suggesting something private is being confided
Example: At one time or another during the game; each team will form a conspiratorial huddle to discuss its game strategy.

Word: Conspire
Meaning: to make covert plans to perform an illegal or bad deed
Example: Some poor people believe politicians conspire to keep them in dire financial straits.

Word: Constant
Meaning: nonstop; ceaseless; for a long duration
Example: The Earth is in constant motion as it spins on its axis.

Word: Constellation
Meaning: a collection of stars that form an identifiable pattern
Example: People can use the figure shaped by a constellation to recognize specific stars.

Word: Consternation
Meaning: a feeling of worry; shock; or fear - often happens when something unexpected happens
Example: I sleep in consternation not knowing where my keys are.

Word: Constituency
Meaning: voters that elect representatives based on area or interests
Example: Most of the constituency in California voted for the democratic candidate.

Word: Constituent 
Meaning: a person who votes in an election or on a particular proposal
Example: In order to become a constituent who can vote for the president; I must be a U.S. citizen.

Word: Constitute
Meaning: to be equal to something
Example: While Greg is a key player; he does not constitute the entire football team.

Word: Consitutional
Meaning: having to do with the constitution
Example: Owning a firearm is considered a constitutional right.

Word: Constrain
Meaning: to restrict; limit or hold back
Example: Dave purchased a play pen to constrain his energetic puppy while he was at work.

Word: Constraint
Meaning: a limitation or restriction
Example: Jordan felt the constraint of handcuffs pressing tightly around his wrists.

Word: Constrict
Meaning: to narrow or reduce
Example: Because I am allergic to peanuts; any contact makes my throat constrict.

Word: Construct
Meaning: to build something
Example: A crew was hired to construct the home and we hope it will be built by Christmas.

Word: Constructive
Meaning: carefully considered and meant to be helpful
Example: The judge’s comments were very constructive to the young singer.

Word: Construe
Meaning: to clarify what something means
Example: We were all amazed by the detective’s ability to construe logic out of the killer’s strange riddle.

Word: Consul
Meaning: a bureaucrat selected by a country’s government to live in a different nation and protect the sending country’s interests and citizens
Example: The diplomat will work as his nation’s consul by supporting the concerns of his homeland while residing abroad.

Word: Consulate
Meaning: the office or building where a consul works
Example: While traveling to China; I decided to address my issues at the consulate.

Word: Consult
Meaning: to seek advice from someone with professional expertise
Example: I decided to consult with a carpenter regarding the deck I planned on building in my backyard because I needed professional advice.

Word: Consultant
Meaning: someone; usually a professional; who gives advice on a particular subject
Example: We hired a lawyer as a consultant for our case since we have no legal experience of our own.

Word: Consultation
Meaning: a conference for the exchange of information and advice
Example: When my jewelry was stolen; I had a consultation with a lawyer to get his advice about whether or not I should sue my neighbor for the robbery.

Word: Consultive
Meaning: related to consultation or professional advice
Example: While it is not what they do primarily; many still consider a psychologist to be a consultive profession.

Word: Consume
Meaning: to eat or drink something
Example: The dog was always in a rush to consume her food; swallowing the meat in one big gulp.

Word: Consumer
Meaning: an individual who buys services and goods for his or her own use
Example: As a consumer; I try and buy inexpensive products.

Word: Consumerism
Meaning: an economic theory based on the idea that spending money/selling lots of goods is good for the economy
Example: Because America is based on consumerism; the economy relies on the hustle and bustle of sales.

Word: Consummate
Meaning: extremely skilled
Example: Phil is a consummate golfer who earned over eight million dollars in tournaments last year.

Word: Consumption 
Meaning: the usage of an item by a specific person or group
Example: The consumption of large amounts of fat can trigger cardiovascular disease.

Word: Contact
Meaning: to meet or communicate with someone
Example: The teacher tried to contact her student’s parents; but couldn’t get them to answer the phone.

Word: Contagion
Meaning: an infection or other medical condition that is passed through both direct and indirect contact
Example: Washing your hands is one of the most effective ways to stop the spread of the fatal contagion.

Word: Contagious
Meaning: capable of spreading a disease
Example: I was not allowed to visit the hospital because my grandfather was contagious.

Word: Contain
Meaning: to hold or enclose
Example: The gardens on the northside contain roses; lilies; as well as some beautiful wildflowers.

Word: Containment
Meaning: the action of restricting or controlling a dangerous person or thing
Example: Containment is the goal of the firemen as they try and control the forest fire.

Word: Contaminate
Meaning: to make something dirty; dangerous or less pure
Example: A boil order would be put into effect because an unknown substance had begun to contaminate the local water.

Word: Contemplate
Meaning: to consider something 
Example: My best friend’s suicide caused me to contemplate my own happiness.

Word: Contemplating
Meaning: carefully thinking about something
Example: After seeing his girlfriend’s offensive text; he was contemplating a breakup.

Word: Contemporaneous
Meaning: taking place during the same period of time
Example: The dancers have practiced for months to get their movements in sync and contemporaneous.

Word: Contemporaneously
Meaning: in the same period of time
Example: Both the Francisco Library and the Benjamin Art Museum opened contemporaneously with similar works.

Word: Contemporary
Meaning: quite recent
Example: While young people tend to prefer contemporary music; the older generation prefers to listen to music from the 1970’s and the 1980’s.

Word: Contempt
Meaning: the feeling of intense dislike and a lack of respect for someone/something
Example: Because Abby came from a wealthy family; it was not surprising she looked at homeless people with contempt.

Word: Contemptible
Meaning: worthy of contempt
Example: The judge sentenced the contemptible man to a lifetime in prison.

Word: Contemptuous
Meaning: showing or feeling deep hatred for someone or something
Example: Because he was often in pain; my grandfather was a contemptuous old man who looked down upon practically everyone.

Word: Contend 
Meaning: to argue or challenge
Example: During the trial; the defense attorney will contend his client is innocent because he was out of state when the murder was committed.

Word: Contender
Meaning: someone or something that opposes another in the pursuit of the same goal
Example: In a game of basketball; each team is a contender to the other; playing against each other for victory.

Word: Content
Meaning: in a peaceful; happy state
Example: Though the steak wasn’t perfect; the satisfied customer was content with his meal.

Word: Contented
Meaning: happy and satisfied
Example: A contented smile crossed her face when she heard that she was selected for prom queen.

Word: Contention
Meaning: a dispute between groups or individuals
Example: Does anyone know the point of contention that started the fight between Jim and Bob?

Word: Contentious
Meaning: causing or likely to cause an argument
Example: The author wrote a contentious novel which caused a great deal of unrest.

Word: Contentment
Meaning: a feeling of being happy and satisfied
Example: After her near death experience; she focused on contentment with life.

Word: Contestant
Meaning: someone who takes part in a contest or competition
Example: If you are taking part in a competition; such as a game show on TV; you are a contestant.

Word: Context
Meaning: the setting in which something occurs
Example: Without context; many conversations that you overhear only a part of make no sense whatsoever; and can often be kind of weird.

Word: Contextualize
Meaning: to put something in proper perspective
Example: If a friend enters a conversation you are having halfway through it; you may have to contextualize it before he knows what you are talking about.

Word: Contiguous
Meaning: used to describe things that touch each other or are next to each other 
Example: Susan chose her condominium because she loved the fact its layout included a large playroom for her growing family.

Word: Continence
Meaning: the ability to restrain oneself; including one’s bodily discharges
Example: During a rare moment of continence; Tom kept his smart comment to himself.

Word: Continent
Meaning: one of the seven large masses of land on the Earth
Example: Each separate continent used to be part of one giant landmass called Pangea.

Word: Continental
Meaning: forming or belonging to a continent
Example: I have a continental lineage; considering that every single one of my ancestors was born in Europe.

Word: Contingency
Meaning: an event that could occur
Example: The city’s evacuation plan is designed to be effective in case of any contingency that necessitates a hasty withdrawal.

Word: Contingent
Meaning: depending on whether or not something else occurs
Example: The job offer was contingent upon the return of a clean background review.

Word: Continual
Meaning: happening over and over again
Example: Continual calls from bill collectors led the irritated woman to change her phone number.

Word: Continuance
Meaning: a postponement or delay; especially in a legal proceeding
Example: The defendant’s attorney asked for a continuance so that he would have two weeks to prepare for trial.

Word: Continuation
Meaning: the action of carrying something out over a period of time
Example: Continuation of the movie will happen right after the commercial break.

Word: Continue
Meaning: to remain so it is going on and on
Example: “We will continue writing our essays for the next ten minutes since half the class isn’t finished;” the teacher told her students.

Word: Continuity 
Meaning:  consistency; a nonstop link
Example: The novel is confusing because it does not have continuity and lacks a sense of order.

Word: Continuous
Meaning: going on and on without interruption
Example: Because of the water leak; a continuous stream sprayed out of the ground for several hours.

Word: Continuum
Meaning: something that keeps on going; changing slowly over time
Example: The space-time continuum was studied by those interested in time travel.

Word: Contorted
Meaning: twisted in a forceful manner
Example: The python contorted around its intended victim.

Word: Contortion
Meaning: a bent position or shape 
Example: The gymnast’s contortion allowed us to see the full extent of her flexibility.

Word: Contour
Meaning: to mold something into a specific shape
Example: The artist made sure to contour the lines on the painting to make the animal appear more real.

Word: Contraband
Meaning: items that are illegally transported
Example: The inmate’s wife was arrested for trying to bring contraband into the jail.

Word: Contract
Meaning: a written or spoken agreement
Example: After signing the rental contract; the tenants quickly regretted the agreement.

Word: Contradict
Meaning: to disagree with what is being stated
Example: Surprisingly; the lab results contradict with the physician’s diagnosis.

Word: Contradictory
Meaning: opposite or logically inconsistent
Example: The contradictory law makes no sense because it outlaws the act in one part and allows it in another.

Word: Contradistinction
Meaning: distinguishing things by noting the contrasts or differences in them
Example: The human mind is notorious for using contradistinction; often distinguishing people and objects by the difference they bear to others.

Word: Contrarian
Meaning: a person who rejects the majority and takes an opposing view
Example: The politician took a contrarian stance and opposed the bill supported by most of the members of his party.

Word: Contrarily
Meaning: in an opposing manner
Example: My wife acted contrarily to my wishes when she allowed our daughter to go to a party without asking me first.

Word: Contrary 
Meaning: something that is opposite from what is believed to be true
Example: Contrary to what my wife has told the judge; I have never been unfaithful to her.

Word: Contrary
Meaning: not compatible with a position or nature; in opposition 
Example: Contrary to my political rival’s statement; the data reveals crime has not increased in this country.

Word: Contrast
Meaning: to differ greatly 
Example: Even though Kurt is going to love his new job; his salary will contrast negatively with the large income associated with his former position.

Word: Contrastingly
Meaning: at odds with something or the polar opposite of it
Example: The two friends are so contrastingly different that it is a real surprise that they get along at all; though they do say that opposites attract.

Word: Contravene
Meaning: to act against a rule or law
Example: Because your actions contravene school policy; you're being suspended for ten days.

Word: Contretemps 
Meaning: an ill-timed or humiliating incident
Example: Falling in the school cafeteria was a contretemps the shy girl would never forget.

Word: Contribute
Meaning: to donate something to a cause; whether it be time; money; or ideas
Example: Ariana Grande and several other artists came together to contribute to charity concert for victims of the Manchester terrorist attack.

Word: Contribution
Meaning: a gift or payment to a common fund or collection or the part played by a person or thing in bringing about a result or helping something to advance
Example: The grocery store cashier asked the customer if she would like to make a contribution to the American Heart Association.

Word: Contributor
Meaning: someone or something that gives aid to a cause or goal
Example: I am a contributor to the charity that I support; giving it a significant monetary donation every month.

Word: Contrite
Meaning: feeling or showing remorse or regret
Example: The local news was noticeably contrite and apologized to viewers for the countless on-air technical difficulties.

Word: Contrition
Meaning: the state of feeling remorseful or sorry for what one has done
Example: The defendant pled guilty to the crime and expressed heartfelt contrition for the things he done.

Word: Contrivance
Meaning: something contrived; as a mechanical device or a clever plan 
Example: While we thought the movie was supposed to be an insightful documentary; it was actually nothing more than a political contrivance created to stir hate among ethic groups.

Word: Contrived
Meaning: unnatural or fabricated 
Example: Jim made the contrived confession after the police threatened him.

Word: Control group
Meaning: the group of people in a study or experimentation that do not take the treatment or action
Example: Research found that the weight loss product worked because the control group maintained their weight whereas the experimental group took the product and lost a lot of weight.

Word: Control
Meaning: to exercise influence over; to suggest or dictate the behavior of 
Example: The whole operation is under control of the production manager.

Word: Control
Meaning: to influence or direct people’s behavior
Example: The overbearing mother liked to control her children’s behavior and wouldn’t let them do anything without her permission.

Word: Controllable
Meaning: able to be controlled; manageable
Example: “Asthma is very controllable; if you’re following the asthma guidelines and taking medication as needed.”

Word: Controversial
Meaning: something that is the subject of typically heated public disagreement
Example: Many political topics are controversial subjects precisely because they appeal to one party demographic or the other.

Word: Controversy
Meaning: a heated conversation between two parties with different opinions
Example: The controversy around same sex marriages continues to be a trending topic on Twitter.

Word: Contumacious
Meaning: rebellious against laws or those in authority
Example: Because the contumacious student refused to obey the principal’s instructions; he was suspended from school.

Word: Contumelious
Meaning: insulting; Showing a lack of respect or rudeness
Example: Offended by her niece’s contumelious behavior; Linda decided not to invite her back over until she learned some manners.

Word: Contumely
Meaning: unpleasant behavior or language 
Example: The television network felt the show’s dialogue contained contumely that was inappropriate for its young viewers.

Word: Conundrum
Meaning: a difficult problem that seems to have no solution
Example: Trying to solve this conundrum is really making my head hurt.

Word: Convalescence 
Meaning: the period of time spent recuperating from illness or treatment
Example: During my convalescence; I will be on a restricted diet until my digestive system heals.

Word: Convene
Meaning: to gather for a reason
Example: As soon as the last closing argument is made; the jury will convene to ponder the verdict.

Word: Convenience 
Meaning: a thing which makes something easier for an individual
Example: The elevator is a pleasant convenience that helps me avoid stairs.

Word: Convenient
Meaning: to make something simpler for ease or relief
Example: “If it is convenient for you;” said the neighbor; “I can meet you halfway so you don’t have to travel as far.”

Word: Conveniently
Meaning: in a way that is useful/fits well
Example: Tags are conveniently placed on each item so that shoppers will know how much they cost.

Word: Convent
Meaning: a place where nuns live; nunnery
Example: The young nun committed her life to the community the day she took her vows at the convent.

Word: Convention
Meaning: a formal meeting or assembly
Example: A convention was called so that the delegates could vote on the laws.

Word: Conventional
Meaning: describing the standard or the norm
Example: In many cultures; a handshake is a conventional greeting exchanged between people meeting for the first time.

Word: Converge
Meaning: to come together from different places to meet at one point
Example: Every year; my family chooses to converge in Georgia from all around the United States for our family reunion.

Word: Convergence
Meaning: two or more things coming together to form a new whole
Example: Because of the convergence of political views in the legislature; it is highly likely the government will be able to vote on the budget proposal without any bickering.

Word: Conversant
Meaning: to be familiar with or have inside knowledge about the facts of something
Example: The man is conversant in several different languages including French and English.

Word: Conversation
Meaning: The exchange thoughts through spoken word (talking)
Example: During their conversation about summer vacation; Thomas and his dad came up with some ideas of fun things to do.

Word: Conversational
Meaning: speech or writing that is relaxed or casual
Example: The blog article had a conversational tone that made it easy to read and understand.

Word: Converse
Meaning: to engage in conversation
Example: I chose to converse with my younger sibling in the grocery store while we waited for our Mom to finish talking with her friend.

Word: Conversely
Meaning: on the other side or hand
Example: The trip wasn’t all good; and conversely; it wasn’t all bad.

Word: Convert
Meaning: to change in form
Example: At the airport; kiosks are set up to convert Chinese yen to American dollar bills.

Word: Convex
Meaning: shaped like a ball; having a distinct curve that leads into or forms a circle
Example: An ice cream scoop’s convex shape make it great for perfectly round scoops.

Word: Convey
Meaning: to deliver or make understood
Example: The popular writer hoped his personal story would convey a message of hope to all those living with depression.

Word: Conveyance
Meaning: relocating a person or item usually by means of a large vehicle
Example: Fishermen in Iceland have large boats for the conveyance of haddock to local fish markets.

Word: Convict
Meaning: to find someone guilty of a crime
Example: The jury will probably convict the man of murder since he was found with the victim’s blood on his hands.

Word: Conviction
Meaning: a firmly held belief or opinion
Example: He had such a lack of conviction of his suitability for the job that he skipped the interview entirely.

Word: Convince
Meaning: to talk someone to into doing or believing something
Example: Even though his drinking was a problem; no one could convince the alcoholic to get help.

Word: Convivial
Meaning: friendly and making you feel welcome
Example: Carl was a convivial party host who made everyone feel at home.

Word: Convocation
Meaning: a sizable gathering of people 
Example: The convocation of Baptist ministers is so large it’s being held in the city’s largest auditorium.

Word: Convoke
Meaning: to call together or summon a meeting
Example: The chairman decided to convoke a meeting to discuss the company’s budget issue.

Word: Convoluted
Meaning: extremely complex and difficult to follow
Example: My head began to hurt as I listened to the professor’s convoluted speech.

Word: Convoy
Meaning: a group of vehicles that move as a unit for safety reasons
Example: As the convoy of missionaries travelled through the dangerous jungle; they were escorted by a team of soldiers.

Word: Convulse
Meaning: to shake violently
Example: During the seizure; the man’s muscles tightened; and his body began to convulse back and forth.

Word: Convulsion
Meaning: a sudden and uncontrollable movement of the body
Example: The man was wracked with a convulsion when his Parkinson’s kicked in; causing him to shake uncontrollably.

Word: Coolly
Meaning: done calmly and in a way that does not show excitement
Example: The soldiers tried to react coolly and calmly even during the chaotic mission.

Word: Cooperation
Meaning: the act of working together or the actions taken by an individual to be helpful
Example: It took the cooperation of the entire team to meet the fundraising goal.

Word: Cooperative
Meaning: ready to work with another person or in a team
Example: The first team was very responsive and cooperative in updating data.

Word: Coordinate
Meaning: each of a group of numbers that can be used to find the location of something
Example: Because one coordinate is wrong; the address won’t help us find it to our location.

Word: Coordination
Meaning: a procedure or system of arranging people or things so that they function successfully
Example: Due to my coordination of the project at work with my department; my boss gave me a raise since the project was done in a timely and efficient manner.

Word: Cop-out
Meaning: an instance of avoiding commitment or responsibility; generally with an excuse
Example: Even though taking out the trash is supposed to be my little brother’s job; he managed to cop-out of it by pretending that the dog needed to be walked.

Word: Copacetic 
Meaning: going well; satisfactory
Example: Despite the poor economy; business at our restaurant has been copacetic enough to allow us to earn a small profit.

Word: Cope
Meaning: how well or effectively a person can deal with a difficult or tragic situation
Example: The farmers were unable to cope with the harsh dry weather and many of their crops died.

Word: Copious
Meaning: large in number or quantity
Example: To avoid having a hangover; do not drink a copious amount of alcohol.

Word: Copra
Meaning: dried coconut kernels or meat that produces coconut oil
Example: Because coconut oil is found inside the copra; the meat of the coconut isn’t discarded after use.

Word: Copse
Meaning: a group of small trees or shrubs
Example: Six oak trees made up a little copse to the right of the farmer’s house.

Word: Copy
Meaning: the result of copying; an identical duplicate of an original 
Example: My doctor was able to give me a copy of my test results.

Word: Copycat
Meaning: one who copies the ideas or behavior of someone else
Example: He called me a copycat for wearing the same shirt as him.

Word: Copyright
Meaning: exclusive legal ownership that is given to someone for something they create
Example: If you write a book; you will have it under copyright; and no one can reproduce it without your permission.

Word: Coquetry
Meaning: behavior that is flirty in nature
Example: It was hard for Rick to ignore his wife’s shameless coquetry with other men.

Word: Coquette
Meaning: a flirty lady with the male population to seek their appreciation
Example: When the young man saw the coquette playfully teasing other men at the party; he was heartbroken.

Word: Coquettish
Meaning: playful in a flirtatious manner
Example: My sister is a coquettish woman who enjoys flirting with men.

Word: Cord
Meaning: unit of measurement for firewood 
Example: Dominick entered the kitchen with a heavy cord of wood; his thick arms bulging under the load.

Word: Cordial
Meaning: warm and sincere
Example: The bellman’s cordial greeting made me instantly fall in love with the hotel.

Word: Cordillera
Meaning: a series of mountain ranges that run parallel and serve as the main mountain range of a continent
Example: In North America; the Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Nevada range make up a cordillera that stretches through the west.

Word: Cordon
Meaning: to create a barrier around or from something
Example: Since children could get injured on playgrounds; it is essential to cordon off a playground so they don’t have access to it through the fence.

Word: Corduroy
Meaning: heavy fabric with vertical ribs
Example: I like rubbing my fingers across the ribs of my corduroy pants.

Word: Core
Meaning: a center and usually main part of something compared to its surroundings
Example: Once the teacher was able to get to the core of the problem; the other information regarding the problem was really irrelevant.

Word: Cornerstone
Meaning: a key part of something
Example: Keith’s belief in Christ is the cornerstone of all his successful relationships.

Word: Cornucopia
Meaning: a large amount of something
Example: The gigantic farmer’s market has a cornucopia of fresh foods.

Word: Corollary
Meaning: a natural consequence; or a result that naturally follows
Example: While the expected corollary of staying up all night was to ace the final exam; Cynthia found that she actually fell asleep halfway through and didn’t finish.

Word: Coroner
Meaning: an official who investigates violent; sudden; or suspicious deaths
Example: The coroner examined the body for foul play.

Word: Corporal 
Meaning: relating to the physical or human form
Example: The board of education does not support corporal punishment because of the physical harm that can be inflicted upon students.

Word: Corporation
Meaning: a large business that under the law has the rights and duties of an individual
Example: Corporation tax cuts meant that the business could save money on levies and put it back into the company.

Word: Corporeal
Meaning: tangible; of a physical nature
Example: As Jack reached for the ghost; he realized it was not corporeal when his hands went straight through the shape.

Word: Corps
Meaning: a band of people operating together
Example: As the corps of volunteers worked on the house; they were able to provide a poor family with the opportunity to own their own home.

Word: Corpse
Meaning: a dead body
Example: Police found the corpse of the missing woman outside of her friend’s apartment building.

Word: Corpulent
Meaning: having a large bulky body
Example: After overeating for months; the skinny girl became somewhat corpulent.

Word: Corpus
Meaning: a large collection of writing
Example: The corpus contained many different articles written by the author shortly before his death.

Word: Corral
Meaning: a small fenced-in area for animals; usually farm animals
Example: Trainers will typically take their horses inside the corral so that they can teach them certain talents without worrying about the horses escaping.

Word: Correct
Meaning: free from error; true; the state of having an affirmed truth 
Example: You are correct that a sedentary lifestyle is generally bad for your health.

Word: Correlate
Meaning: having a shared connection in which one factor influences another 
Example: Studies show intelligence is unique to each person and does not correlate to a specific race or gender.

Word: Correlation 
Meaning: a relationship between two items that are connected in some way
Example: Since the detective could not find any correlation between the suspect and the victim; he had to release the accused man.

Word: Correlative
Meaning: mutually related
Example: The child's right to education is a correlative of the parent's duty to send the child to school.

Word: Correspond 
Meaning: to have an obvious link to something
Example: The colors on the legend correspond to the similarly colored areas on the map.

Word: Correspondence
Meaning: messages exchanged between people
Example: In times of war; my mother often sends correspondence to active duty servicemen.

Word: Correspondent
Meaning: a person; journalist who communicates information to a newspaper; radio or television 
Example: A correspondent for Reuters news agency says he saw a number of demonstrators being beaten.

Word: Corridor
Meaning: a hallway that leads into rooms or other divided areas
Example: Looking for our mother’s room; we walked down the hospital corridor.

Word: Corrigible 
Meaning: able to be fixed or corrected
Example: The judge believed there was hope for the corrigible criminal.

Word: Corroborate
Meaning: to strengthen or support with other evidence; make more certain
Example: I prayed my friend would corroborate the lie I told my parents!

Word: Corrosive 
Meaning: having the ability to wear down or destroy
Example: Because the battery is corrosive; you should not touch it with unprotected hands.

Word: Corrugated
Meaning: containing a wavy exterior; wrinkled
Example: The roof was made of corrugated material so the rain could flow down easily.

Word: Corrupt
Meaning: to degrade or demolish someone’s or something’s truthfulness and reliability
Example: Illegal drug use would corrupt the athlete’s career causing people to have no faith in the young man.

Word: Corruptible
Meaning: having the ability to be degraded and defamed
Example: One of the police officers realized that he worked among a corruptible group of police officers when they started talking about stealing the drug money they had seized.

Word: Corruption
Meaning: the act of corrupt; loss of purity or integrity by authority figures
Example: The corruption within our government branches corrodes public confidence.

Word: Corsage
Meaning: a small bouquet of flowers worn on a woman's dress or worn around her wrist to a formal occasion; traditionally purchased by the woman's date
Example: Placing the corsage on her wrist; he thought to himself that the flower’s color matched her dress perfectly.

Word: Cortege
Meaning: an individual’s entourage or a grave procession
Example: A cortege of vehicles followed the hearse into the cemetery.

Word: Coruscate
Meaning: to give off flashes of light
Example: The diamonds began to coruscate in the bright light.

Word: Cosmetic
Meaning: external or superficial; pertaining only to the surface or appearance of something
Example: Fortunately; the damage to the house was mostly cosmetic and a bit of paint covered it nicely.

Word: Cosmic
Meaning: incredibly important or large
Example: The cosmic medical discovery is going to save millions of lives.

Word: Cosmopolitan
Meaning: reflecting the influence of numerous cultures and countries
Example: Since Jane loved being around people of various cultures; she enjoyed the cosmopolitan atmosphere of the international market.

Word: Cosmos
Meaning: the world viewed as a serene and organized place
Example: In observance of the cosmos of life; everything that is born must also die.

Word: Cosset
Meaning: to treat like a pet; to overly indulge
Example: From buying expensive toys to boxing vegetable-free lunches; the mother would cosset to her child's every whim.

Word: Coterie 
Meaning: a group of individuals who hang out together for a certain reason
Example: Our coterie of girls always sits at the best table in the school cafeteria.

Word: Coterminous
Meaning: having the same border or covering the same area as something else
Example: The little town of Richland is coterminous with the parish of Richland as they share the same border.

Word: Cottage
Meaning: a small; simple house usually located in the forest or countryside
Example: The quaint little cottage was the perfect place for a weekend getaway.

Word: Cougar
Meaning: an older woman who prefers to date much younger men
Example: Cougar dating sites hook older women up with much younger men.

Word: Cough
Meaning: to sharply dispel air from the lungs; usually when something is lodged in the throat or irritating it
Example: The child choked for a moment on his hot dog; but after a cough or two he managed to dislodge the piece of meat that endangered him.

Word: Council
Meaning: a board or assembly that meets to advise or discuss things
Example: Head of the school board council; Mr. Meador was responsible for running the meetings once a month.

Word: Counsel
Meaning: a lawyer or attorney
Example: The man decided to find new legal counsel since his current attorney doesn’t seem to care about his case.

Word: Counselor
Meaning: a person trained to give guidance on problems
Example: Visiting the counselor; the woman hoped that his guidance would help her with her personal problems.

Word: Countenance
Meaning: a person's face or facial expression
Example: Even though Janet is a very young woman; her rough countenance makes her appear much older.

Word: Counter
Meaning: to retaliate or react to a typically hostile action
Example: The politician had to counter the accusations being made against him; but he did not have a suitable defense to do so.

Word: Counteract
Meaning: act against or in opposition to something
Example: To counteract the violence in the community; the police increased the number of footmen on patrol.

Word: Counterbalance
Meaning: to oppose or balance something with another thing of equal weight or force
Example: A pulley system was used by the movers to counterbalance the weight of the furniture during delivery.

Word: Counterclaim
Meaning: a claim or suit filed in response to a claim made against a group or individual
Example: Filing a counterclaim will allow us to replace the funds we spent defending ourselves in this silly lawsuit.

Word: Counterexample
Meaning: an example that contradicts a theory or opinion
Example: The math teacher provided a counterexample to prove to the student that her solution was incorrect.

Word: Counterfeit
Meaning: a fake version of an original item
Example: The man was arrested for making counterfeit money.

Word: Counterintuitive
Meaning: the opposite of what makes sense
Example: While this idea may sound counterintuitive to what you are trying to do; it really can help increase your sales.

Word: Countermand
Meaning: to change or retract a command
Example: Since the bank robbers have hostages; the police chief decided to countermand the order to storm the building.

Word: Counterpart 
Meaning: an object or person that is comparable to another
Example: The president met with his Canadian counterpart to talk about a trade treaty.

Word: Counterproductive
Meaning: resulting in the opposite of the looked-for effect
Example: The measures are counterproductive and have only increased crime in our community.

Word: Countervail
Meaning: to counter something with equal force to offset its effect
Example: To countervail the customers’ concerns about poor service; the company sent out a letter offering to make things right.

Word: Countless
Meaning: too many to be counted
Example: Countless stars lit up the night sky.

Word: Coup de grace
Meaning: the last shot or stabbing in order to kill a severely injured person or animal in order to stop its suffering
Example: Due to lack of medicine available on the battlefield; the coup de grace was ordered on the gravely wounded soldier to put him out of his misery.

Word: Coup 
Meaning: the quick action of taking power or a surprise victory
Example: When the coup failed; the dictator killed all the rebels who tried to remove him from power.

Word: Couple
Meaning: two partners in a romantic relationship
Example: Congratulations are extended to the newly married couple and their families.

Word: Coupled
Meaning: together with; combine
Example: Being depressed coupled with a poor diet can lead to mental and physical exhaustion.

Word: Couplet
Meaning: a pair of lines with rhyming end words
Example: Many primary grade pupils enjoy rhyme in a couplet when writing poetry.

Word: Courage
Meaning: the quality of a confident character not to be afraid or intimidated easily
Example: No longer wanting to suffer; the boy gained the courage to stand up to the bully.

Word: Courageous
Meaning: possessing the ability to overcome fear to enter into a dangerous activity
Example: The courageous firefighters rushed into the burning building to save the trapped women and children.

Word: Courier 
Meaning: an individual who delivers packages or messages
Example: The courier should have the package to you within an hour.

Word: Course
Meaning: a path that something or someone moves along 
Example: Outside the golf club members were working hard to prepare the course for open week.

Word: Court-martial
Meaning: a court where cases of military law is heard
Example: That case concerned an officer's conviction by a court martial in India of an offence of grossly insubordinate conduct.

Word: Court
Meaning: the session of a judicial assembly for civil and criminal cases 
Example: Because of protests for a man on trial; the security measures in the court building was tightened.

Word: Courteous
Meaning: displaying respect for other people
Example: The courteous young man held the door open for the elderly woman.

Word: Courtesan
Meaning: a prostitute to men of great wealth or power
Example: As the king’s mistress; the courtesan was one of the highest paid prostitutes in all of Europe.

Word: Courtesy 
Meaning: good-mannered behavior
Example: If you treat people with courtesy; they will be nice to you.

Word: Courtier
Meaning: a companion of a queen; king; or another ruler at a royal court
Example: The courtier followed the queen around the castle; attending to her every need.

Word: Courtliness
Meaning: having the mannerisms or attributes befitting someone of high breeding; elegance; good taste; and/or manners
Example: The courtliness of the ballroom could be found in the elegant chandeliers; expensive curtains; and gold fixtures.

Word: Couth
Meaning: well-mannered and sophisticated
Example: The couth young man handled himself well at the formal dinner.

Word: Couture
Meaning: the production of high-end custom made clothing
Example: The best time for designers to show their couture is on the red carpet at the Emmy awards worn by the actors.

Word: Coven
Meaning: a secret gathering of individuals; especially witches
Example: A coven of witches met at midnight so they could discuss which spells and potions they would use on their neighbors.

Word: Covenant
Meaning: a binding arrangement; a contract
Example: The priest’s covenant is an agreement between him and God.

Word: Cover letter
Meaning: a letter or written communication that serves to introduce an accompanying document
Example: Amanda sent her cover letter along with her resume to five dental offices for a hygienist position.

Word: Cover
Meaning: to place something over or upon; as to conceal or protect
Example: Remember to cover the pot with a lid while you are cooking pasta.

Word: Coverage
Meaning: the handling or reporting of an issue by the media
Example: Because there wasn’t much news coverage of the issue; protestors began to riot in the streets.

Word: Covert
Meaning: hidden or secret
Example: The spy went to great lengths to make sure his enemies would not discover his covert plans.

Word:  Covet 
Meaning: to greatly desire something you lack
Example: The Bible says a man should not covet another man’s wife.

Word: Covetous
Meaning: displaying greed for another individual’s belongings
Example: The covetous woman couldn’t stop staring at my designer handbag.

Word: Covey
Meaning: a small flock of birds
Example: The hunter attempted to scare a covey of birds out of the brush they were nesting in; but the loud air horn he used served only to deafen his own ears.

Word: Coward
Meaning: an individual who fears doing unpleasant or risky things
Example: Jim is a coward who stood silently as five boys attacked his little brother.

Word: Cowardice 
Meaning: lack of bravery
Example: Ned’s cowardice led him to abandon his comrades during the battle.

Word: Cower
Meaning: to crouch as in fear or shame
Example: When he was afraid; the little puppy would crouch down and cower in fear.

Word: Cowl
Meaning: a long hooded cloak; usually worn by a monk
Example: Placing the hood of his cowl over his head; the monk made his way into the temple.

Word: Cowlick
Meaning: an unruly section of hair that stands up or grows in different direction from rest of the hair
Example: Thomas finished applying the gel to his hair; although he couldn't get rid of that annoying cowlick in the back of his head.

Word: Coxcomb
Meaning: an arrogant man who is more concerned about his clothes than anything else
Example: As the middle-aged coxcomb strolled down the sidewalk in his clean suit; he stopped into the window to observe his appearance.

Word: Coy 
Meaning: in a shy yet flirtatious manner
Example: From behind her fan; the young woman gave her suitor a coy smile.

Word: Coyly
Meaning: in a reluctant manner
Example: Because Ellen stared at me coyly; I knew there was more information she wasn’t telling me.

Word: Cozy
Meaning: warm and comfortable
Example: Sprawled out in front of the cozy fire; the relaxed cowboy could barely keep his eyes open.

Word: Crabby
Meaning: grumpy and irritable
Example: Usually after paying the bills; it is recommended that children stay away from their parents because they may be crabby from losing so much of their monthly paycheck.

Word: Crack
Meaning: the partial exterior break of something without complete separation
Example: While washing the car; Sara noticed a small crack in her windshield and had it repaired immediately.

Word: Crackdown
Meaning: immediate stern measures; increased enforcement 
Example: Police are hailing raids as part of a national crackdown on illegal drugs a success.

Word: Crackle
Meaning: a fizzing popping sound exhibiting similar patterns
Example: Adam sat bold upright in his tent as the crackle of twigs breaking caught his attention.

Word: Cradle
Meaning: a rocking infant’s bed that usually has sides
Example: After singing a lullaby while swinging the baby in his cradle; Baby Bobby quickly fell asleep.

Word: Craft
Meaning: an activity such as weaving or making pottery that requires you to make things with your hands
Example: The retired teacher is looking for a new craft to take up since she is good at making things with her hands.

Word: Crafty
Meaning: cunning and tricky
Example: The crafty wolf was able to trick Little Red Riding Hood into thinking he was Grandmother.

Word: Craggy
Meaning: used to describe landscape that is rough and uneven
Example: The craggy peaks of the mountains are so uneven that no hiker could ever stand on them.

Word: Cram
Meaning: to stuff; completely fill
Example: Trying to cram six chapters of information the night before the test resulted in a failing grade.

Word: Cramp
Meaning: a small convulsion caused by a muscle that hurts
Example: After swimming in the hot sun right after eating a large lunch; a cramp formed in my stomach making me double over in pain.

Word: Cranky
Meaning: ill-tempered; irritable; or agitated
Example: My cranky girlfriend is making an effort to avoid looking or talking to me today since I irritated her with my comment about her weight this morning.

Word: Cranny
Meaning: a small; narrow opening
Example: A cranny in the rock surface caused the hiker to twist their ankle.

Word: Crapulence
Meaning: illness due to overeating or drinking too much
Example: After the winner consumed 44 pancakes at the 25th Annual Lakesmith Pancake Eating Contest; the crapulence he felt made him bedridden for the next few hours.

Word: Crapulous
Meaning: very drunk or intoxicated
Example: The crapulous teenagers stumbled around the party spilling whiskey from their red solo cups.

Word: Crash
Meaning: an automobile; plane or other vehicle accident
Example: Police are keen to speak to any witnesses to the collision or anyone who saw either vehicle before the crash.

Word: Crass
Meaning: stupid; vulgar; insensitive
Example: If you don’t want to hear crass comments about the way you dress; don’t wear that outfit to the night club.

Word: Crave
Meaning: to feel a powerful desire for something
Example: While trying to cut out sweets from her diet; Belle began to desperately crave cake and other sweets.

Word: Craven
Meaning: cowardly
Example: My husband James proves he is not craven every time he runs into a burning building to save a stranger.

Word: Crawl
Meaning: to creep to move slowly on hands and knees or by dragging the body
Example: To retrieve the wounded it was necessary to move forward by foot or crawl under intense fire cover.

Word: Craze
Meaning: a temporary passion or infatuation; trend 
Example: The Pokemon Go craze that once swept the country has slowed down as gamers wait for newer versions.

Word: Crazy
Meaning: mentally deranged; of unsound mind or behavior
Example: The crazy woman was locked in the tower after she tried to boil the king alive.

Word: Crazy
Meaning: suffering from a mental illness or insane
Example: Because he talks to birds; everyone assumes the homeless man is crazy.

Word: Creak
Meaning: to make a prolonged sharp grating or squeaking sound; as by the friction of hard substances 
Example: There was a creak in the floorboards when he stood up.

Word: Crease
Meaning: a line or mark made by folding or pressing something that is soft; such as paper or cloth
Example: He forgot to iron his dress shirt on that day and went to work with many creases on his shirt.

Word: Create
Meaning: to bring into existence; something unique
Example: We are going to create new jobs by bringing in new products and services to the community.

Word: Creative
Meaning: having the ability to come up with new ideas or create original things
Example: The creative artist is always coming up with ideas for new paintings.

Word: Creature
Meaning: a living being; especially an animal
Example: The lion is the only creature inside the zoo enclosure; but other animals are in cages around it.

Word: Credence
Meaning: mental acceptance as true or real
Example: Because the experiment had been performed over a hundred times; a great deal of credence was given to the results.

Word: Credentials
Meaning: attributes that show a person’s or organization’s experience; skill; achievement; or value 
Example: The man’s credentials label him as a millionaire despite his untidy appearance.

Word: Credibility
Meaning: reputation impacting one’s ability to be trustworthy 
Example: The failure to report the allegations undermined the credibility of the witnesses to the extent they should not be believed.

Word: Credible
Meaning: believable; trustworthy
Example: As a member of the jury; I didn’t find the witness testimony credible so I disregarded it.

Word: Credit
Meaning: acknowledgment or recognition granted to a person for something they did
Example: Nothing is more low and cowardly than to take credit and glory for something someone else has done.

Word: Creditable
Meaning: deserving of praise
Example: Although Ellen didn’t win the singing competition; her efforts were creditable enough to earn her a recording contract.

Word: Creditor
Meaning: one to whom something is owed
Example: As a creditor; my landlord can evict me if I don’t pay my rent.

Word: Credo
Meaning: the core beliefs that determine a person’s or group’s behaviors
Example: As a soldier; Danielle adheres to the credo of placing her country first.

Word: Credulous
Meaning: ready to believe; especially on slight or uncertain evidence
Example: Because my brother is a credulous consumer; he is a salesperson’s dream.

Word: Creed
Meaning: a set of principles that guides the actions of a group or person
Example: My family creed is biblical in nature and focuses on love and respect.

Word: Creek
Meaning: a small body of running water
Example: They headed down to the creek to skip rocks.

Word: Creep
Meaning: to maneuver discreetly in a quiet and unhurried way
Example: The mouse attempted to creep by the unsuspecting snake by moving one small step at a time without making any noise.

Word: Creepy
Meaning: strange and slightly frightening; causing fear or unease
Example: The creepy creaking of the door in the middle of the night sent chills down my spine.

Word: Crept
Meaning: simple past tense of creep; move slowly
Example: Debby lost weight before college but the lost pounds crept back.

Word: Crepuscular
Meaning: lively mainly at dusk or sunrise
Example: At sunset; the entomologists study the crepuscular insects as they move across the beach.

Word: Crescendo
Meaning: the topmost increase in size or intensity 
Example: The storm’s noisy crescendo meant it was getting closer to our home.

Word: Crescent
Meaning: a thick arched shape
Example: The white crescent figure on the lower part of a person’s fingernails is sometimes a small curved symbol showing a medical problem.

Word: Crest
Meaning: the highest point
Example: The hiker dreamed of reaching the crest of Mount Everest; but knew it would take several more years of training before success.

Word: Crestfallen
Meaning: unhappy about a recent experience
Example: After losing comrades in battle; several crestfallen soldiers cried in their tents.

Word: Cretin
Meaning: an offensive term that is used to describe a person as stupid
Example: The villain was a real cretin; evil enough to try to blow up the world but not smart enough to do it.

Word: Cretinous
Meaning: very stupid or insensitive
Example: Example sentences for Fiduciary. Read this page and learn how to use Fiduciary in a sentence.

Word: Crevasse
Meaning: a large crack or fissure in a glacier or snowfield; a chasm 
Example: It can be dangerous to ski or ride a snow machine across a glacier for fear of falling into a hidden crevasse.

Word: Crevice
Meaning: a tight opening or gap
Example: Sally was afraid when the wasps decided to nest in a crevice above her front door.

Word: Crew
Meaning: a group of people working together on a task 
Example: The ambulance crew removed him from the wreckage.

Word: Crew
Meaning: a team of people that work together to operate something
Example: The yard crew worked together to finish the landscaping before sundown.

Word: Crime
Meaning: act violating the law
Example: When the judge gives a light sentence for muggers the crime is usually repeated.

Word: Criminal
Meaning: A person that commits a crime acts that are against the law
Example: The criminal had a long rap sheet with several past theft charges.

Word: Crimson
Meaning: a deep red color
Example: The injured girl’s crimson blood spilled out into the snow after she cut her leg on the sled.

Word: Cringe
Meaning: to shrink or flinch; as in fear; disgust or embarrassment
Example: Because I'm afraid of the dentist; I cringe every time I get my teeth cleaned.

Word: Cripple
Meaning: person who has severe impairment in his physical abilities; unable to walk
Example: He had been warned that another bad fall could cripple him for life.

Word: Crippling
Meaning: causing a severe problem; such as not being able to walk or move
Example: As soon as he was shot; a crippling pain took over the victim’s body.

Word: Crisis
Meaning: a difficult time when disasters are happening or when tough decisions must be made
Example: As a paramedic; the emergency worker’s job is to help sick or injured people who are in crisis.

Word: Crisp
Meaning: brittle; friable in a condition to break with a short; sharp fracture
Example: The breakfast special allowed me to substitute sausage links for crisp bacon.

Word: Criteria
Meaning: a rating used for judging something or someone 
Example: When I saw the criteria for getting into an Ivy League school; I decided to go to a local college instead.

Word: Criterion
Meaning: a standard upon which individuals and things can be measured
Example: The main criterion for joining the country club is one’s ability to pay the sizable annual fee.

Word: Critic
Meaning: a person who expresses an opinion of something
Example: The book critic wrote a negative review that ripped the novel to shreds.

Word: Critical
Meaning: important; vital
Example: Finding a safe place to live is critical if we plan to relocate to New Mexico this summer.

Word: Criticism
Meaning: the expression of disapproval and judgement of someone or something
Example: Nia’s father’s negative criticism of her work made her consider giving up painting all together.

Word: Criticize
Meaning: to find fault with something
Example: It is unfair to criticize teachers for not promoting students who cannot perform at their grade level.

Word: Critique 
Meaning: a review of a work describing its positive and negative elements
Example: The author was angry when he received a negative critique of his novel.

Word: Croak
Meaning: a low; hoarse sound that certain animals made such as a frog or raven
Example: Letting out a low croak; the frog used his low voice to warn others in the pond that a predator was nearby.

Word: Crochet
Meaning: a form of knitting using yarn
Example: My grandmother would always crochet Afghan blankets for her children because she loved to use a needle and wooly thread.

Word: Crocodile Tears
Meaning: display of tears that is forced or false
Example: The crocodile tears allows us to see through the false expressions of regret.

Word: Crone
Meaning: a female who is either ugly and/or cruel
Example: The boys referred to the stern and unattractive teacher as a crone.

Word: Crony
Meaning: an intimate companion or friend
Example: The old man and his crony drink in the bar all day.

Word: Crook
Meaning: a dishonest individual
Example: If you check the jacket the crook is wearing; you'll probably find the stolen watch.

Word: Croon
Meaning: to sing a song in a low; soft voice
Example: Because he had a low-powered voice; the singer felt it best to croon soft tunes rather than try to be a powerhouse.

Word: Crop
Meaning: to cut something short
Example: To create the new style; the girl used scissors to crop her long shirt into a short one.

Word: Cross
Meaning: to go to the other side of something
Example: It is unsafe for kids to cross the busy school road without a crossing guard to guide them to the other side.

Word: Crossly
Meaning: in an angry or irritated manner
Example: Eva reacted crossly when she learned that she was not chosen for the solo part.

Word: Crossroads
Meaning: a point at which two roads meet
Example: Both cars stopped at a crossroads near 5th street.

Word: Crotchet
Meaning: a highly specific and often eccentric preference
Example: I’m a mostly normal guy; but my one crotchet is that I like to listen to Beethoven whenever I eat dinner.

Word: Crotchety 
Meaning: grouchy
Example: Angry about being placed in the nursing home; the crotchety man chased his nurses with his cane.

Word: Crouch
Meaning: to lower the body down and forward by bending of the knees
Example: The hunter decided to crouch down in hopes that the deer would not see him.

Word: Crowbar
Meaning: an iron bar with a flat end that is used as a lever or to pry things
Example: After using a crowbar to pry open the back door; the robber dropped the iron tool and made his way inside the bank.

Word: Crowd
Meaning: a large group of typically disorganized people
Example: The protest went from a mild protest to a full blown riot when the large crowd of people started ransacking nearby storefronts.

Word: Crown
Meaning: a wreath or band for the head; especially one given as reward of victory or mark of honor
Example: The previous winner of Miss America will hand off her crown to the next winner.

Word: Crucial 
Meaning: of vital importance
Example: Eating right is a crucial part of controlling diabetes.

Word: Crucially
Meaning: with extreme importance
Example: The amount of funds allocated depends crucially on how many foster children are being serviced.

Word: Crucible
Meaning: a tough trial or test
Example: After the hazing crucible; Matt became a full member of the fraternity.

Word: Crucifixion
Meaning: an execution by being nailed or tied to an upright cross and left to hang there until dead
Example: The most famous crucifixion in Christianity included Jesus on a cross with a criminal on either side of him.

Word: Crude
Meaning: rudimentary; undefined or undeveloped
Example: I was not proud of my science project which was a crude representation of a planet.

Word: Cruel
Meaning: inflicting pain and suffering
Example: Cruel winter weather plagued the struggling city for months.

Word: Cruelty
Meaning: behavior that inflicts pain and suffering
Example: Severe cruelty was demonstrated through the treatment of slaves.

Word: Cruise
Meaning: to travel smoothly at a continuous speed
Example: Since we were on the highway; my mom decided to let the car cruise at a comfortable seventy miles an hour.

Word: Crumble
Meaning: to cause something to fall apart and break into many small pieces
Example: When his mother died; the man felt as if his world would crumble under his feet.

Word: Crumbly
Meaning: fragile; easily breakable
Example: Every time she tried to take a bite; the crumbly cake fell off of her fork.

Word: Crumple
Meaning: crush something in a way that it becomes wrinkled with many folds
Example: The girl used her foot to crumple each can she collected.

Word: Crunch
Meaning: a crucial point or situation
Example: The noon deadline put the magazine writers in a crunch to find the day’s most interesting stories.

Word: Crusade
Meaning: a campaign organized to support or promote a certain cause
Example: The woman’s crusade against firearm violence earned her the hostility of gun manufacturers.

Word: Crush
Meaning: to put so much pressure on something that it breaks or changes
Example: The politician urged lawmakers to reduce taxes; claiming that high rates crush the small business owner’s spirit.

Word: Crust
Meaning: the hardened; outer layer of an object
Example: Cracks in the earth’s crust cause earthquakes and other on top of the outer layer.

Word: Crustacean
Meaning: a large group of mostly water animals (as crabs; lobsters; and shrimps)
Example: A shrimp is a crustacean; as are crabs and crawfish.

Word:  Crux 
Meaning: the key feature or point of a matter
Example: The crux of the debate is each candidate’s position on the budget issue.

Word: Cry
Meaning: shed tears; especially as an expression of distress or pain
Example: She struggled not to cry at her aunt’s funeral; but she couldn’t hold back the tears.

Word: Cryogenic
Meaning: a branch of physics that deals with very low temperatures
Example: Some proponents of cryogenics believe that the very low temperatures may allow those frozen through physics to live eternally.

Word: Crypt
Meaning: an underground room in a church
Example: An acolyte followed the priest’s request to go down all of the stairs and retrieve the urn from the crypt as soon as possible.

Word: Cryptic
Meaning: difficult to understand
Example: Younger children will find it hard to understand the cryptic directions that go along with the chemistry set.

Word: Cryptography
Meaning: the process of writing or reading secret messages or codes
Example: Spies during the war practiced cryptography; making sure to send the information they gathered in private; coded forms.

Word: Crystalize
Meaning: to form crystals
Example: As the ice changed forms; it began to crystalize and take a crystal-like shape instead of a solid sheet.

Word: Crystalline
Meaning: describes something that is clear like crystal
Example: Crystalline waters flowing down the side of the valley were as clear as a transparent stone.

Word: Cub
Meaning: a baby bear
Example: Pandas usually give birth to a set of twins; but most of the time there is only one surviving cub.

Word: Cubby-hole
Meaning: a small; enclosed compartment used to store things
Example: The student put her jacket and lunchbox into a small cubby-hole inside her classroom.

Word: Cube
Meaning: a regular solid of six equal square sides
Example: Trays with small cube indentions are used to freeze water into chunks of ice.

Word: Cubical
Meaning: a small section of a larger room that is partitioned off
Example: Sitting in his dismal office cubical; the customer service representative answered endless phone calls from angry customers.

Word: Cuckold
Meaning: husband of an unfaithful wife
Example: To be called a cuckold during her affair was bad enough; but now the man knew that his wife really wanted a divorce.

Word: Cuddle
Meaning: to embrace affectionately
Example: Wishing she could cuddle him in her arms; the working mother thought about her newborn the whole time she was at the conference.

Word: Cudgel
Meaning: a club or thick stick used as a weapon 
Example: A wooden cudgel was used to defend off the victim’s vicious attackers.

Word: Cue
Meaning: a signal (as a word; a gesture; or phrase) for somebody to do something
Example: If one of them wanted to leave the party; their cue was scratching their left ear.

Word: Cuff
Meaning: the end of the shirt that encompasses at the end of the hand
Example: I buttoned the cuff of my shirt so that no one could see my watch on my wrist.

Word: Cuisine
Meaning: the art of preparing or relating to food
Example: She was able to take a cooking class in Italy that demonstrated authentic Italian cuisine with its flavors and techniques.

Word: Culinary
Meaning: relating to cooking
Example: The chef created a culinary masterpiece that wowed his patrons.

Word: Cull
Meaning: to take from a unit or group
Example: Before we take the pecans to market; we cull the damaged ones that cannot be sold.

Word: Culminate
Meaning: to come to a significant point such as the end of an event
Example: At the end of the night; the concert will culminate in a huge fireworks display.

Word: Culpable
Meaning: guilty; deserving blame
Example: The judge found the man culpable of the crime and sentenced him to life in prison.

Word: Culprit
Meaning: the individual or thing responsible for an offense or crime 
Example: The severe drought is the culprit behind the death of the orange trees.

Word: Cult
Meaning: a small group of people who practice a common belief system usually associated as odd
Example: With their hooded sheets and fiery crosses; members of the racist cult traveled throughout the south wreaking havoc.

Word: Cultivate 
Meaning: to foster or nurture
Example: The purpose of couples’ therapy is to help us cultivate a loving and supportive relationship.

Word: Culture Shock
Meaning: a feeling of unfamiliarity due to someone being thrust into an unexperienced culture or way of life
Example: Someone who went from rich and comfortable to rags and poverty would be subject to a massive culture shock due to their previous lifestyle.

Word: Culture
Meaning: the practices and beliefs of a particular group of individuals
Example: Pavi’s style of dress is determined by her Indian culture.

Word: Culvert
Meaning: a structure that allows water to flow under a road; railroad; trail; or similar obstruction from one side to the other side
Example: Many artists took inspiration from the culvert overlooking the small stream.

Word: Cumbersome
Meaning: difficult to manage
Example: Because the cumbersome package weighed over three hundred pounds; it took two men to move it.

Word: Cumbrous
Meaning: difficult to handle or manage
Example: Since the professor had once taught higher level classes; his students dreaded his cumbrous tests.

Word: Cumulative
Meaning: growing as a result of additions
Example: The student’s cumulative grade for four years of high school is eighty-nine.

Word: Cumulus
Meaning: white puffy cloud
Example: Once the cumulus clouds were in sight; the scientist knew that a thunderstorm was not far behind.

Word: Cunctation
Meaning: procrastination or tardiness; the action of delaying or putting off something
Example: The cunctation of the students caused low grades because the teacher always provided important information at the beginning of the class.

Word: Cuneiform
Meaning: the world’s first form of written language
Example: The world’s first written language; cuneiform was used as a communication tool by all of the great Mesopotamian civilizations.

Word: Cunning
Meaning:  something done skillfully or with clever deception
Example: Even though Shannon thought she had a cunning strategy to get Bill to propose; it turned out to be wasted planning when he told her that he was already married.

Word: Cupboard
Meaning: a storage cabinet with shelves and a door
Example: During the earthquake; the cupboard full of glasses rattled and shook.

Word: Cupid
Meaning: child with bow and arrow as representation of love
Example: Cupid is believed to shoot love arrows at single men and women on Valentine’s Day.

Word: Cupidity
Meaning: excessive desire or greed
Example: John’s cupidity led him to try and rob the bank.

Word: Cupola
Meaning: a small dome or vault pertaining to a roof
Example: Instead of a steeple; a domed cupola was structured at the peak of the Catholic cathedral.

Word: Cur
Meaning: an aggressive and mongrel dog
Example: The once friendly dog was now a cur; unexpectedly turning on its master.

Word: Curate
Meaning: to collect; select; organize; and care for something
Example: The library steward’s main objective was to curate all of the books; making sure they are accounted for and in good condition at the end of the month.

Word: Curative
Meaning: the ability to cure an ailment or disease
Example: The young woman read that a vegetarian diet was curative for her autoimmune disease.

Word: Curator
Meaning: one who organizes and manages a collection of some sort
Example: The old curator was replaced with a new one after failing to maintain the museum’s most treasured art exhibit.

Word: Curb
Meaning: something that holds back or limits
Example: Popping a small piece of candy into your mouth would curb your hunger but only temporarily.

Word: Cure
Meaning: to bring about good health after an illness or a disease
Example: Gene replacement therapy seems promising in regards to the treatment and cure for various diseases.

Word: Curfew
Meaning: an order which forbids people to be out on the streets after dark
Example: The coach imposed a curfew on his players because their late night parties were affecting their games.

Word: Curiosity
Meaning: a desire to know or learn more about something or someone
Example: The speaker sparked my curiosity when she began to talk about when she lived in Paris.

Word: Curious
Meaning: eager to learn information
Example: Because of his curious nature; the eager student learned lots of interesting information at the library.

Word: Curl
Meaning: to form a curved or spiral shape
Example: As the bologna fried in the pan; the heat caused the sides to curl up and sizzle.

Word: Curmudgeon
Meaning: a person who is ill-tempered
Example: My neighbor is a curmudgeon who keeps the soccer balls that accidentally come into his yard.

Word: Currant
Meaning: a small seedless raisin that is traditionally grown in the Mediterranean but is also grown in California
Example: Since I love raisins; the taste of ripe currant in my dish was delicious.

Word: Currency
Meaning: anything used to purchase goods and/or services
Example: In the 1800s gold was a valuable currency that could be used to purchase goods and services.

Word: Current
Meaning: happening or being done/used now
Example: Grandma watches the news each night to keep herself up-to-date on the world’s current events.

Word: Curriculum
Meaning: set of courses and coursework
Example: A liberal arts curriculum is broad and diverse; consisting of courses in literature; philosophy; mathematics; and social and physical sciences.

Word: Curse
Meaning: to make a statement that promises something bad or deadly will happen
Example: The evil witch placed a curse on the beautiful princess so that when she pricked her finger she would fall into a magical sleep.

Word: Cursed
Meaning: plagued with misfortune; evil; or doom
Example: Every attempt to turn the cursed frog back into his princely form was thwarted by the cruel queen.

Word: Cursive
Meaning: a style of handwriting in which letters flow together through flowing strokes
Example: Cursive writing is no longer taught in some school since the use of computer has replaced traditional writing.

Word: Cursor
Meaning: a movable or blinking symbol that indicates the position on a display screen and is usually controlled by a mouse
Example: After finding the hidden object on the computer game; the player has to move the cursor over the picture and click.

Word: Cursory
Meaning: something done quickly with little attention to detail
Example: After doing a cursory head count; Claire realized that two of the campers were not in their tents.

Word: Curt
Meaning: blunt to the point of being impolite
Example: The service agent was fired after he was overheard treating customers in a curt manner.

Word: Curtail
Meaning: to limit something
Example: Until the celebrity’s stalker is caught; we will curtail her public appearances.

Word: Curtain
Meaning: a piece of fabric that is traditionally hung to block out light or hide things from view
Example: Pulling the curtain to a close; the stagehands pulled out the furniture and props for the next act.

Word: Curtly
Meaning: in a rudely blunt and brief manner
Example: Most of the teenagers spoke curtly to the police officer when they were questioned.

Word: Curtness
Meaning: the quality of appearing rudely blunt and brief
Example: Behavior specialists assist schools by lessening the curtness from the troubled students.

Word: Curtsy
Meaning: to show respect by bending the knees with one foot in front of the other while bowing the head
Example: “I am Queen Elizabeth;” the child laughed as she said that to her friend; “and you must curtsy.”

Word: Curvature
Meaning: a measure or amount of curving
Example: Because of her spine’s curvature; the girl had to see a specialist for straightening.

Word: Curve
Meaning: a line that is not straight but bends in a smooth and continuous way
Example: Bending her back into a natural curve; the yoga instructor prepared for the next pose.

Word: Curvilinear
Meaning: curved; bent
Example: The students were not standing in a straight line but rather a curvilinear form.

Word: Cushion
Meaning: a plush pillow or pad that is used for sleeping; sitting or support
Example: Replacing the rocking chair’s cushion helped the nursing mother be more comfortable while feeding her newborn.

Word: Cusp
Meaning: a point in time that marks the beginning of a change or a transition
Example: After many experiments; the scientists were already on the cusp of a breakthrough cure.

Word: Custodian
Meaning: a person whose job it is to look after or maintain something
Example: After being hired by the maintenance department; each custodian is trained on how to keep the restrooms clean.

Word: Custody
Meaning: control and care of a particular person or object
Example: Custody was awarded to the children’s father when their mother entered a drug treatment facility.

Word: Custom
Meaning: made or personalized for a specific customer
Example: The husband requested that the jeweler design a custom ring for his new bride.

Word: Customarily
Meaning: completed in a way that follows customs or usual practices
Example: A majority of African Americans customarily voted democratic in this election like elections of the past.

Word: Customary
Meaning: actions based on longstanding traditions of a particular society
Example: Kisses and hugs were customary in his family; but not his wife’s crew.

Word: Customer
Meaning: someone who purchases something
Example: My boss at the feed store harps that the customer is always right; but I think most of them just want something for nothing.

Word: Customizable
Meaning: able to be customized or modified to fit a particular purpose
Example: The jewelry is customizable; so the bracelets can be modified to fit both children and adults.

Word: Customize
Meaning: to modify something so that it can be used for a specific purpose
Example: The teacher tries to customize each basic assignment so that it is a good fit for all types of students.

Word: Cutback
Meaning: a reduction or decrease something
Example: The students were so happy when their teacher decided to give a cutback on the number of homework assignments they had to compete.

Word: Cute
Meaning: adorable with a youthful appearance
Example: Smiling down at the cute puppy; the little girl fell in love with its pretty eyes and begged to take him home.

Word: Cuticle
Meaning: an outer layer of skin; especially around the base and sides of fingernails or a plant
Example: The nail tech removed the cuticle and dead skin around the client’s fingernail.

Word: Cutting edge
Meaning: the best and/or most advanced
Example: The best militaries in the world have to be cutting edge and always purchase the latest technology.

Word: Cyanosis
Meaning: a bluish or purplish discoloration of the skin due to lack of oxygen in the blood
Example: After spending the night in below zero weather; cyanosis kicked in and the trapped hunter began to turn blue.

Word: Cyborg
Meaning: a science fiction character that is part human and part machine
Example: The cyborg boarded the spacecraft and used his robotic arm to snatch the wiring out of the motherboard.

Word: Cycle
Meaning: a series of events that happens over and over
Example: The election cycle repeats itself every four years.

Word: Cyclic
Meaning: regularly repeating in a cycle
Example: Weather can generally be predicted since the seasons are cyclic and repeat year after year.

Word: Cyclist
Meaning: a person who rides a bicycle
Example: Although he wasn’t a professional cyclist; the man thoroughly enjoyed riding bicycles.

Word: Cyclone
Meaning: a tornado or other similar spinning storm
Example: Appearing in the sky out of nowhere; the twisting cyclone began to pick up debris with its strong winds.

Word: Cylinder
Meaning: a solid or tubular object with two circular bases
Example: A cylinder holder containing the scroll was delivered to the ball’s invitees.

Word: Cylindrical
Meaning: shaped like a cylinder with two straight sides and circles on each end
Example: The rounded-end Pringles can has a cylindrical shape that is different from another chip packaging.

Word: Cymbal
Meaning: a musical instrument made of round; brass plates which make a clanging noise when hit together
Example: Banging the cymbal loudly; the musician marched through the parade to his own beat.

Word: Cynical
Meaning: distrustful of human nature and motives
Example: Helen is a cynical woman who does not trust anyone.

Word: Cynicism
Meaning: a feeling of doubt or trust when it comes to people doing good things or things working out well
Example: Because of his cynicism; the accountant had a hard time believing he would be hired for the position.

Word:  Cynosure
Meaning: something or someone that is the center of attention
Example: At the ball; the cynosure of the evening was the queen’s million-dollar tiara.

Word: Cypress
Meaning: an evergreen tree with scaly or pointy leaves and small rounded woody growths
Example: The bald cypress is a distinct type of tree in that it differs from other types of cypress and does not stay evergreen all year long.

Word: Cytoplasm
Meaning: contents of a cell excluding the nucleus
Example: A cytoplasm is a thick solution inside a cell and is made up of water; salts; and proteins.

Word: Dabble
Meaning: to casually participate or have an interest in an activity
Example: The man touted his professional bowling skills but his wife revealed that they only dabble in the sport occasionally.

Word: Dachshund
Meaning: a breed of dog also referred to as a “weenie dog” because of its short legs and long body
Example: The long-bodied dachshund wagged its tail as it stretched out in the noon-day sun.

Word: Daedal
Meaning: created in a complex or intricate way
Example: As he played the daedal melody with perfection; the musician surprised the crowd.

Word: Daft
Meaning: stupid; ridiculous; or silly
Example: The daft article is full of errors; and does not belong in our journal.

Word: Dagger
Meaning: a short weapon with a blade and a handle
Example: The sharp handle of the warrior’s dagger was carved out of pure ivory.

Word: Daily
Meaning: every day
Example: Dentists recommend that you floss your teeth daily.

Word: Daimyo
Meaning: ancient Japanese feudal lords who the samurai served under
Example: The descendent of an ancient daimyo; the Japanese boy was proud that to come from a powerful; land-owning family.

Word: Dainty
Meaning: delicately small and pretty
Example: Our newborn girl clasps her long dainty fingers in a tight fist.

Word: Dais 
Meaning: an elevated platform used as a stage 
Example: The mayor and the governor will sit on the dais until it is time for them to speak.

Word: Dale
Meaning: a broad valley
Example: Living in a dale at the bottom of the Appalachian Mountains; the poor hermit was cut off from the rest of society.

Word: Dalliance
Meaning: a relationship; usually romantic or sexual; that is taken lightly
Example: Since Jill and Frank were both married to other people; their workplace dalliance did not last very long.

Word: Dally
Meaning: to do something slowly
Example: They fired the guard because he would dally about; wasting his time.

Word: Damage
Meaning: to impair the soundness; goodness or value of; to harm or cause destruction
Example: The recent hurricane left visible damage to houses across the state.

Word: Damnation
Meaning: the act of something being doomed
Example: When the criminal was sentenced to death; the life of the criminal would lead to his damnation.

Word: Damp
Meaning: slightly wet
Example: There is a big difference in damp and soaking; nearly as large as the difference between hot and on fire.

Word: Dampen
Meaning: to make something slightly wet
Example: It rained just enough to dampen the ground; but the grass dried up quickly.

Word: Damper
Meaning: someone or something that has a depressing effect on people
Example: Bill has always been a damper; bringing down the mood with his pessimism and angst.

Word: Damsel
Meaning: a young; unmarried woman
Example: Seeing the damsel in distress; the knight swooped in and saved her from the fire-breathing dragon.

Word: Dance
Meaning: to sway around in a rhythm usually to music
Example: When the DJ started to play the music; the couples decided to dance to it by twirling and moving to the beat of the music.

Word: Dandle
Meaning: to move up and down on one’s knee or in one’s arms; in affectionate play; as an infant
Example: Once Uncle Claude saw his two-year old nephew; he began to dandle him on his knee.

Word: Dandy
Meaning: quality of being really great or awesome
Example: They played a dandy game of golf and finished with almost perfect scores.

Word: Dangerous
Meaning: potentially life-threatening or will cause harm
Example: Children are told that it’s dangerous to cross the road without looking for cars first.

Word: Dangle
Meaning: to droop freely
Example: Since her long earrings dangle down to the middle of her neck; the woman was constantly getting them caught in her long hair.

Word: Dank
Meaning: chilly and damp in an unlikable way
Example: After the flooding; the house was so dank we moved into a hotel for a few weeks.

Word: Dapper
Meaning: neat in appearance; usually referring to a male
Example: In the roaring twenties; all of the dapper men took a great deal of care with their appearance.

Word: Dapple
Meaning: marked with spots or round patches
Example: The dapple pony had several light-colored spots on his dark body.

Word: Daring
Meaning: to describe someone who is ready to take risks; bold; or venturesome.
Example: Bold and daring; Harriet Tubman helped over 300 slaves escape to freedom through the Underground Railroad.

Word: Dark horse
Meaning: a little known competitor that unexpectedly wins
Example: Like a dark horse; the knight came out of nowhere and won the joust.

Word: Dart
Meaning: to dash or rush for something or in a certain direction
Example: When Martin felt like he was about to vomit; he decided to dart for the bathroom so he wouldn’t throw up on his bedroom floor.

Word: Dash
Meaning: to run somewhere in a hurry
Example: Tristan was able to dash through the crowd; moving so quickly that she wasn’t late for her meeting.

Word: Dashiki
Meaning: a colorful decorative tunic originating from Africa
Example: When the cultural festival presented Ethiopian dancers dressed in a dashiki and equally vibrant pants; they grabbed everyone’s attention in the audience.

Word: Dashing
Meaning: attractive in a manly sense
Example: The dashing rogue that rescued me was handsome; strong; and clever; and I fell for him almost immediately.

Word: Dastardly
Meaning: wicked; evil; and cruel
Example: The counterfeiter’s dastardly scam was perfected to such a degree that it took decades for the FBI to track him down.

Word: Data
Meaning: statistics that are gathered from research and organized into a usable form
Example: The government collects demographic data through the use of census forms.

Word: Database
Meaning: a collection of data usually organized and stored in a computer system for easy access
Example: The DEA has a database that lists known drug syndicates and their associates.

Word: Datum
Meaning: a piece of information
Example: While conducting my study; I needed one more piece of datum to prove my theory.

Word: Daub
Meaning: to coat or smear a substance on a surface
Example: My mom screamed at me when I began to daub my bread with too much cream cheese.

Word: Daunting
Meaning: a task that appears challenging
Example: As I looked up the mountain; I knew it would be a daunting feat to reach the peak.

Word: Dauntless
Meaning: fearless; bold; or courageous
Example: The dauntless knight decided to do battle with the dragon within its own lair; fearing neither its flame nor its fang.

Word: Dawdle
Meaning: to waste time by moving slowly
Example: If I do not monitor my daughter in the mall; she will dawdle there all day long.

Word: Dawn
Meaning: the start of the morning light just before sunrise; daybreak
Example: I stayed up until dawn waiting for Craig to walk through the door; but he never did.

Word: Daze
Meaning: a state of stunned confusion and a lack of clarity
Example: In a daze; I wandered through the hallways of the hospital; bumping into everyone that passed me by.

Word: Dazzling
Meaning: very stunning and amazing
Example: As the dazzling model walked down the runway; everyone was looking at the beautiful woman instead of the clothing.

Word: De facto
Meaning: in use regardless of actual status
Example: Although Jim and Sarah have never married; they consider their thirty-year relationship to be a de facto marriage.

Word: De riguer
Meaning: required by etiquette or current fashion
Example: If you want to be a clown; a big red nose is de riguer.

Word: Deadline
Meaning: the latest time or date by which something should be finished or turned in
Example: Pushing to meet the latest deadline; the editor worked late into the night on the story.

Word: Deadlock
Meaning: an impasse caused by conflict between two sides
Example: Because of a voting deadlock; the council cannot make a decision on the business permit.

Word: Deadpan
Meaning: showing no feeling or emotion
Example: The waitress’s deadpan expression made her appear cold to her customers.

Word: Deafening
Meaning: used to describe a sound that is so loud that it drowns out all other sound
Example: As the bomb went off; deafening noise and eye-clouding smoke filled the city.

Word: Dealt
Meaning: simple past tense of deal; take action with respect of someone
Example: As the Police officer dealt with the driver; his partner chased the passenger who ran.

Word: Dearth
Meaning: a scarcity or lack of something
Example: Because there was a dearth of evidence; the district attorney had to drop the charges.

Word: Debacle
Meaning: a disaster or a great failure
Example: When the movie was released; it was called a debacle by the critics.

Word: Debar
Meaning: to formally refuse or not allow a person to do something
Example: After causing a lot of chaos outside of the meeting; the committee’s president decided to debar the businessmen from attending the meeting.

Word: Debase 
Meaning: to reduce in character or quality
Example: The politician tried to debase his rival’s good reputation by spreading false rumors about him.

Word: Debatable
Meaning: questionable; open for discussion or dispute
Example: The car was priced at fifteen thousand; but the eager salesman assured us that it was debatable.

Word: Debate
Meaning: a discussion of a particular subject in which people express different opinions
Example: My philosophical friends and I loved to debate art and music over coffee.

Word: Debauch
Meaning: a stint of extreme enjoyment involving pleasures of a carnal nature
Example: On the night of his graduation; Jake engaged in an alcoholic debauch and ended up in the emergency room.

Word: Debauchee
Meaning: a person who lives a reckless and self-indulgent lifestyle
Example: The debauchee spent most of his days getting drunk in a rundown hotel room.

Word: Debauchery
Meaning: extreme indulgence in sensual behaviors; such as careless drinking and promiscuity 
Example: How can you go to church every Sunday and still engage in debauchery?

Word: Debenture
Meaning: a document admitting to owing money usually used with big corporations
Example: After publicizing the debenture; it became known to the country that this large company was obligated to pay large sums of money back to the lending institution.

Word: Debilitate
Meaning: to weaken
Example: Cancer can quickly debilitate an otherwise healthy person.

Word: Debility
Meaning: a state of physical or mental weakness
Example: My father’s debility kept him from taking long walks like he used to love to do.

Word: Debonair
Meaning: confident and stylish; suave
Example: Everyone is excited about the idea of the handsome athlete playing a debonair spy in the new movie.

Word: Debrief
Meaning: to ask questions in order to extract evidence
Example: When the fight ended at school; the principal needed to debrief each eyewitness to get an idea of which student started the fight.

Word: Debris 
Meaning: leftover pieces from something that is broken or destroyed 
Example: The street cleaners will remove the debris left behind by the car accident.

Word: Debt
Meaning: financial liabilities or obligations
Example: It looked as if filing for bankruptcy would be the only option for the business that was drowning in debt.

Word: Debtor
Meaning: a person who owes money to someone else
Example: Instead of paying back what he owed; the debtor filed bankruptcy on his debt.

Word: Debug
Meaning: the process of identifying and removing errors from something; especially electronics
Example: A specialist was called out to debug the school’s software and to get things up and running again.

Word: Debunk 
Meaning: to reveal the inaccuracies associated with a belief
Example: My attempts to debunk my young daughter’s belief in Santa Claus only ended with her crying for days.

Word: Debut
Meaning: the first public showing or appearance
Example: The piano prodigy made his musical debut when he was only three years old.

Word: Debutante
Meaning: a young upper-class woman who makes her first formal appearance in society
Example: The debutante teenager spent an enormous amount of money on a dress that she planned to wear only at her first appearance.

Word: Decade
Meaning: a span of ten years
Example: Robert taught at a University in Colorado for a decade before leaving to teach elsewhere.

Word: Decadence
Meaning: state of moral or artistic decline or deterioration
Example: The gold trimmings in the celebrity’s bathroom are nothing but sheer decadence.

Word: Decant
Meaning: to move one fluid or liquid from one container to another
Example: After asking the waiter for him to refill my glass; he took the large pitcher of iced tea to decant it from his pitcher into my glass.

Word: Decathlon
Meaning: an athletic contest consisting of ten events
Example: I practice sprinting; running and jumping so that I can compete in the decathlon.

Word: Decay
Meaning: to rot or break down
Example: Frank loves to impress everyone with his knowledge of the rise and decay of the Roman Empire.

Word: Deceased
Meaning: no longer alive
Example: Pretending to be deceased; Anthony laid silently in a pool of blood not daring to make a sound.

Word: Deceitful
Meaning: dishonest or untruthful in actions or words
Example: The lying city council was deceitful when telling the residents that the mayor hadn’t stolen the money.

Word: Deceive
Meaning: to mislead or trick 
Example: The married man tried to deceive the women at the bar by taking off his wedding band.

Word: Decelerate
Meaning: to slow down or reduce the speed of something
Example: As the speedometer reached 100 miles per hour; the frightened passenger begged the driver to decelerate.

Word: Decency 
Meaning: the attribute of being proper
Example: My neighbor has no sense of decency and often walks around naked in his backyard.

Word: Decent
Meaning: modest or proper
Example: Searching for a decent prom dress was difficult since most of the gowns showed way too much skin.

Word: Deception
Meaning: the act of lying; misleading or tricking someone
Example: I was warned beforehand that the lawyer would use deception to obtain a confession on the witness stand.

Word: Deceptive
Meaning: misleading
Example: The deceptive woman led me to believe that she was divorced when in fact she was married with children.

Word: Decibel
Meaning: a common measure of sound intensity
Example: The low decibel of the sound indicated that the noise could not have been louder than a low humming.

Word: Decide
Meaning: to resolve or settle a problem or dispute
Example: When my wife can’t decide what to make for dinner; we order take out.

Word: Deciduous
Meaning: falling off because it is temporary
Example: During the fall; the deciduous shrubs in my yard will release their leaves.

Word: Decimate
Meaning: to destroy or greatly decrease in size or number
Example: It is likely the category five hurricane will decimate the small beach town.

Word: Decipher 
Meaning: to read something that appears impossible to be read
Example: There was no way I could decipher my doctor’s handwriting.

Word: Decision
Meaning: a choice made after thinking about it and considering options
Example: Wendy couldn’t make a dinner decision; so her husband ordered pizza.

Word: Decisive
Meaning: resolving a problem 
Example: When the soldier saw twice as many of their reinforcements coming over the bridge to help them fight the enemy; that was the decisive moment that he knew the war was over.

Word: Decisively
Meaning: in a decisive manner
Example: In the capacity of my assignment the requirements are that I must be able to act decisively; without second guessing my decisions.

Word: Declaim
Meaning: to say something in a loud; passionate way
Example: The love-struck newlywed would declaim his love for his bride on the peak of the highest mountain top.

Word: Declaration
Meaning: an important statement or announcement
Example: The king made a declaration that anyone who does not pay taxes will have their head chopped off.

Word: Declare
Meaning: to make an official statement
Example: People speculate the candidate will declare an end to his campaign because of the massive drop in his poll numbers.

Word: Declination
Meaning: a formal refusal of something
Example: While I appreciated the invite I received to the fancy ball; I had other plans that night and had no choice but to offer a declination in response.

Word: Decline
Meaning: to move downwards; to fall; to drop
Example: A crack in the water tower is causing the water level to decline.

Word: Declivity
Meaning: downward slope
Example: Grandma has a hard time walking from her house to the lake due to her street’s slight declivity.

Word: Decode
Meaning: to convert from an encrypted form to ordinary language
Example: The colonel wanted Schonberger to learn how to decode military letters for communication purposes.

Word: Decomposition
Meaning: the state or process of decaying or rotting
Example: We learned that decomposition is the process of breaking down organic substances into simpler forms of matter.

Word: Decorous
Meaning: proper in behavior
Example: The director of the finishing school is a decorous woman known for her perfect social skills.

Word: Decorum
Meaning: conduct that is appropriate and illustrates a person is well-mannered
Example: Although Kelly was upset she did not win the contest; she maintained decorum and congratulated the winner.

Word: Decoy
Meaning: a person or object meant to lure something to danger
Example: Tony uses a worm decoy to bait fish.

Word: Decrease
Meaning: to become or make something become smaller in size; amount; or degree
Example: If he wants to save money for his trip; Christian will need to decrease the amount of money he spends during the week.

Word: Decree
Meaning: an official order issued by a legal authority
Example: The queen issued a royal decree which stopped people from visiting the royal gardens during the holidays.

Word: Decrepit
Meaning: beat-up from wear or age
Example: Because the decrepit building is such an eyesore; it is being demolished in a week.

Word: Decry
Meaning: to denounce as damaging or bad
Example: The liberal news media is constantly trying to decry the efforts of the country’s conservative president.

Word: Dedication
Meaning: hard work and effort
Example: Josh displayed remarkable dedication to his job by working around the clock to meet his deadlines.

Word: Deduce
Meaning: to form a conclusion using logical reasoning
Example: By counting backwards; the clerk was able to deduce the correct change to give back to the customer.

Word: Deduct
Meaning: to subtract or take away from the total
Example: We must deduct our expenses from our sales to determine our profit.

Word: Deductible
Meaning: the amount of money an individual pays for expenses before his insurance plan begins to pay
Example: After the car accident; the insuree had to pay a five-hundred-dollar deductible to get his car fixed.

Word: Deed
Meaning: an action or effort
Example: After doing a good deed for his grandmother; John was rewarded with a pat on the back.

Word: Deem
Meaning: to view in a particular manner
Example: The principal will probably deem the boy’s behavior as upsetting and worthy of a suspension.

Word: Deep-rooted
Meaning: deeply implanted or established
Example: The woman’s deep-rooted hatred for her neighbor had started when she was just a child.

Word: Deep
Meaning: extending far down from the surface
Example: The ocean is so deep that huge boats have been able to sink to the bottom; never to be seen again.

Word: Deface
Meaning: to damage or disfigure something; especially a surface
Example: They used spray paint to deface the professor’s portrait.

Word: Defamation
Meaning: harming a person’s reputation by saying or writing things that are not true 
Example: The newspaper was sued for defamation after publishing lies about a celebrity.

Word: Defamatory
Meaning: something that is damaging to one’s reputation
Example: The politician’s defamatory comments were untrue but still ruined his opponent’s standing in the community.

Word: Default
Meaning: to be unsuccessful at satisfying a commitment
Example: The bank will repossess your car if you default on your loan payments.

Word: Delectable
Meaning: tasting delicious
Example: When you go to a five-star restaurant; you should expect nothing but a delectable meal that exceeds your expectations.

Word: Delectation
Meaning: pleasure; enjoyment
Example: For your delectation; a spread of delicious appetizers will be served throughout the cocktail hour.

Word: Delegate 
Meaning: to give tasks or responsibilities to others
Example: Because Janice cannot do all of the tasks; she has to learn to delegate work to her employees.

Word: Delete
Meaning: to remove; get rid of or erase; especially written; printed or data
Example: Users are advised to update their antivirus software and delete any suspicious emails without opening them.

Word: Deleterious
Meaning: harmful
Example: Because I know alcohol is deleterious; I rarely drink more than one glass of wine.

Word: Deletion
Meaning: the obliteration or omission of information 
Example: Once I noticed the deletion of the file on the computer; I worried because I knew I could never get the file back.

Word: Deliberate
Meaning: to seriously contemplate
Example: We need to deliberate our rest stops before we make hotel reservations for the road trip.

Word:  Deliberation 
Meaning: a thorough consideration
Example: After only one hour of deliberation; the jury came back with a guilty verdict.

Word: Delicacy
Meaning: a food that is expensive and/or specific to a region or culture
Example: Caviar is considered a delicacy because only the rich can afford to eat it.

Word: Delicate
Meaning: weakly fragile; frail
Example: The delicate flower was broken at the stem during the first storm of the season.

Word: Delicious
Meaning: tasty; yummy
Example: The chef crafted delicious recipes that tasted not only amazing but also looked extraordinary.

Word: Delight
Meaning: a strong feeling of happiness or pleasure
Example: Both of our excited parents delight in the fact that a new baby will be born soon.

Word: Delighted
Meaning: greatly pleased
Example: We were truly delighted to see our grandparents at the family reunion this year.

Word: Delightful
Meaning: pleasant; enjoyable
Example: The newlyweds had a delightful dinner and have enjoyed every moment of their honeymoon.

Word: Delimit
Meaning: to measure or set physical boundaries
Example: After the conflict broke out in Yugoslavia; world leaders came together to delimit boundaries and break the region into individual countries.

Word: Delineate
Meaning: to clearly describe or portray something
Example: Before I began to plant my seeds; I will delineate the rows of my garden to make sure every vegetable grows in a precise line.

Word: Delinquency
Meaning: failure to pay a debt that is owed
Example: A delinquency on the student’s account meant that he still owed lunch money from last year.

Word: Delinquent
Meaning: late in paying what is owed or past due
Example: With so many bills delinquent; Kevin had to look for a second job to help him earn enough to catch up.

Word: Deliquesce
Meaning: to melt and disappear
Example: I bet the sidewalk is so hot that the ice cube will deliquesce the moment it touches it.

Word: Delirious
Meaning: not able to speak or think clearly especially because of mental confusion or illness
Example: When my little sister caught the flu; she became delirious from the fever.

Word: Delirium
Meaning: a condition of extreme happiness and excitement
Example: As soon as the young girl saw all of her birthday presents; she leaped in delirium.

Word: Deliver
Meaning: bring and hand over a letter; parcel; or ordered goods to the proper recipient or address 
Example: The eager young girl looked stared out the window; anxiously waiting for the mailman to deliver her birthday present.

Word: Deliverance
Meaning: usually asked or prayed help or saving from a dangerous situation
Example: The woman prayed for deliverance from her rude mother in law.

Word: Delivery
Meaning: something taken to a person or place by someone else
Example: The truck driver made a delivery of boxes to the back of the building.

Word: Delta
Meaning: triangular land that was created when a large stream divided and then emptied into the ocean
Example: While flying close to the shore of the Pacific Ocean; Sarah noticed the squiggly lines of the main river that led to the delta.

Word: Delude
Meaning: to manipulate someone’s judgment
Example: The cult leader was able to easily delude the innocent girl into believing he was a god.

Word: Deluge
Meaning: a large number of things occurring in the same instance
Example: After a deluge of tornadoes; most of the homes in the town were destroyed.

Word: Delusion
Meaning: a false idea or a belief that is not true
Example: It was heartbreaking to witness my ailing grandmother’s delusion that her deceased husband was alive.

Word: Delusional
Meaning: suffering from or characterized by delusions
Example: She held a delusional belief that the sky turned black at night; when it is always blue.

Word: Delusive
Meaning: false or misleading
Example: The delusive ad made it seem that the senator had did things she had not.

Word: Delve
Meaning: to search thoroughly and carefully for information
Example: We had many books to delve into during our research for school.

Word: Demagogue
Meaning: a political leader who tries to influence people by making emotional speeches
Example: Todd wrote an excellent paper describing Hitler as a demagogue.

Word: Demand
Meaning: to command or insist that someone do something
Example: The teachers demand that we do our homework; so we make sure to complete it on time.

Word: Demanded
Meaning: commanded or insisted that someone do something
Example: The upset customer demanded to see the manager after the clerk was rude to her at the counter.

Word: Demanding
Meaning: an attitude of expecting or making others meet high standards or expectations
Example: The General is an extremely demanding commander; but only because he knows his troops are capable of exemplary performance.

Word: Demarcate
Meaning: to mark the limits or boundaries of something
Example: She was convinced that the school’s administration should demarcate social studies grades from science grades.

Word: Demean
Meaning: to make someone feel inferior
Example: The plantation owner took away the slaves’ given names in order to demean them.

Word: Demeanor
Meaning: an individual’s displayed behavior
Example: Jack’s disruptive demeanor got him kicked out of school for a week.

Word: Demented
Meaning: mental instability that drives strange behavior spurred by extreme emotions
Example: Kaia was heartbroken when she found out her grandfather was demented and would soon lose all memory of her.

Word: Dementia
Meaning: progressive decline in cognitive function due to damage or disease in the brain
Example: Diagnosed as dementia; Maureen now had a name for the forgetfulness that made her life so difficult.

Word: Demerit
Meaning: the negative aspects of something
Example: This idea has both a merit and a demerit to it; but I haven’t decided whether or not the benefit is greater than the cost.

Word: Demesne
Meaning: land attached to a manor that was used by the lord and not the peasants (workers)
Example: Staring out at his demesne; the lord of the castle was in awe of all the land that he had acquired.

Word: Demise
Meaning: the end of a period or lifespan
Example: My mother’s demise occurred unexpectedly in a traffic accident.

Word: Democracy
Meaning: a government by the people where the majority rules
Example: If you are opposed to democracy; you do not believe every individual has a voice.

Word: Democrat
Meaning: a supporter of democratic government
Example: Even though I am a Republican; I am technically a democrat to the rest of the world because I support a democratic system of government.

Word: Demography
Meaning: the study of human inhabitants and how their populations vary over time
Example: As the factories closed and people relocated; the demography of the town changed.

Word: Demolish
Meaning: to destroy something; usually by tearing it down
Example: Protesters chained themselves to the old church in an attempt to stop the construction crew from being able to demolish it.

Word: Demonic
Meaning: to act or be controlled by a wicked spirit usually causing evil
Example: As the priest entered the room to conduct the exorcism; he truly felt the demonic presence creating an eerie feeling.

Word: Demonize
Meaning: to portray something or someone as evil or wicked
Example: In divorce court; the bitter wife tried to demonize her ex and pain him in a bad light to the judge.

Word: Demonstrable
Meaning: able to be verified or proven
Example: Whether you believe in gravity or not is irrelevant; because the force is demonstrable and best shown by dropping anything; like an apple...or an apple iPhone.

Word: Demonstrate
Meaning: to prove something by showing examples
Example: The basketball player hopes to demonstrate his skill during tryouts; so he can make the team this year.

Word: Demonstrative
Meaning: openly affectionate
Example: Because Susan was raised in a family that was far from demonstrative; she is not comfortable sharing her emotions.

Word: Demoralize
Meaning: to cause someone to lose hope or confidence
Example: The rebels tried their best to demoralize their captive and cause him to give up hope of a rescue.

Word: Demote
Meaning: someone who is transferred to a lower position or rank
Example: An employer who has lost confidence in the ability of an employee may demote him.

Word: Demur
Meaning: to object or protest to something
Example: Because the DA decided to demur the low bond; it was set at a higher fee.

Word: Demure
Meaning: shy and modest; reserved
Example: My sister is too outgoing for anyone to ever accuse her of being demure.

Word: Denial
Meaning: a statement that something is not true
Example: The suspect’s denial of the crime convinced many people that he hadn’t robbed the store.

Word: Denigrate
Meaning: to assault someone’s character or reputation 
Example: On the talk show; the mean host usually tries to denigrate her guests by reminding them of their misdeeds.

Word: Denizen
Meaning: a person; animal; or plant that lives in or often is found in a particular place or region
Example: My husband is a denizen of the sand who practically lives at the beach.

Word: Denomination
Meaning: an autonomous branch of the Christian church; such as Baptist; Protestant; etc.
Example: Even though I am part of a different denomination than my Uncle; we still believe roughly the same religious doctrine; and our church branches only have very minor differences.

Word: Denotation
Meaning: the literal meaning of a word
Example: While the word ‘rock’ has come to describe a certain form of music; its literal denotation refers only to actual stone.

Word: Denote
Meaning: to point out something
Example: If you get lost; look for the two red flags that denote the hotel entrance.

Word: Denouement 
Meaning: the ending of a literary work; musical composition; or a sequence of actions
Example: The film ended with a denouement that left the audience speechless.

Word: Denounce
Meaning: to criticize harshly and publicly
Example: The dictator made a speech to denounce the actions of his enemies.

Word: Dense
Meaning: crowded together; packed
Example: The forest was so dense we could barely walk between the trees.

Word: Density
Meaning: how compact or concrete something is
Example: The high density city has a lot of people jampacked into one space.

Word: Dental
Meaning: relating to the teeth
Example: The dental office is running a special where you get a free teeth cleaning and 20 percent off any other tooth-related services.

Word: Dentifrice
Meaning: a paste; powder; liquid; or other preparation for cleaning the teeth
Example: The dentist urged that selecting the right dentifrice is important for dental health.

Word: Denunciation
Meaning: an announcement or statement that is shared openly to criticize a thing or a person
Example: The minister’s denunciation of his ex-wife during the service came as a surprise to his congregation.

Word: Deny
Meaning: to say that something is not true
Example: The traffic officer will definitely give you a ticket if you lie and deny that you were speeding.

Word: Depart
Meaning: to leave; exit
Example: The train will depart from the station at exactly twelve o’clock.

Word: Department
Meaning: a division or sector of a larger organization such as a government agency
Example: Emma transferred to a different department within the same company.

Word: Departure
Meaning: leaving; parting
Example: Crying at the gate; the soldier’s wife could barely watch his departure.

Word: Dependable
Meaning: able to be depended on
Example: Although I do not trust mechanics; I am happy to use Chris because of how dependable he is.

Word: Dependence
Meaning: the attribute of relying on someone or something else
Example: As a teenager; I have a dependence on my parents to take care of and provide for me; though that will change when I am an adult.

Word: Dependency
Meaning: a state of reliance or dependence on something else
Example: The colonists’ dependency on Native Americans meant they would starve without their help.

Word: Dependent variable
Meaning: the event expected to change during a science experiment
Example: During the candle burning experiment; the height of the candle is the dependent variable.

Word: Dependent
Meaning: needful; reliant on something or someone else
Example: Our kitten will not be placed in a new home until she is no longer dependent on her mother for milk.

Word: Depict
Meaning: to describe in words or pictures
Example: The drawings on the cave walls depict the lives of the earliest men on the planet.

Word: Deplete
Meaning: to exhaust the supply
Example: The company will be in ruins if we deplete our financial resources.

Word: Deplorable
Meaning: bad enough to deserve censure
Example: John’s deplorable behavior is going to get him arrested one day.

Word: Deplore
Meaning: to express displeasure
Example: Teachers deplore student behaviors that distract from lectures.

Word: Deploy
Meaning: to make ready for use or combat
Example: The police officer hoped he would not have to deploy his weapon.

Word: Depone
Meaning: to swear in a court that the testimony; statement; or evidence given is the absolute truth
Example: Witnesses to a crime are asked to depone in front of a judge and jury that their statement is true.

Word: Deport
Meaning: to evict; especially from a country
Example: The immigration system threatened to deport my Venezuelan maid.

Word: Deportation
Meaning: the act of removing a foreigner out of a country
Example: Due to the father’s criminal behavior; his whole family faced deportation to Brazil.

Word: Deportment
Meaning: the way in which one carries oneself
Example: The homeless woman always held her head high and walked with the deportment of a princess.

Word: Depose
Meaning: to forcefully take a position away from a person 
Example: A coalition of countries is trying to depose the island dictator.

Word: Deposit
Meaning: to set down or place someone or something in a particular place 
Example: The woman stopped by the bank to deposit her paycheck in her account.

Word: Deposition
Meaning: the rejection of an individual from an office 
Example: After the deposition of the president; the vice-president was asked to lead the country.

Word: Depot
Meaning: a storehouse or warehouse where large quantities of food or supplies are stored
Example: Tons of pallets with bulk supplies were sent to the depot to be hoarded for winter.

Word: Depravity
Meaning: moral corruption; wickedness
Example: Although Linda was raised in a religious household; she now lives a life filled with depravity.

Word: Deprecate
Meaning: to criticize or express disapproval
Example: Unfortunately my mother-in-law’s urge to deprecate me is stronger than her urge to inspire me.

Word: Deprecatory
Meaning: belittling; critical
Example: Although he claimed it was all in fun; the man’s deprecatory comments were hurtful to those they ridiculed.

Word: Depreciate
Meaning: to drop in value or worth over a period of time
Example: The new car starts to depreciate in value as soon as it is driven off the lot.

Word: Depreciation
Meaning: the decline in value of assets
Example: The depreciation of a new vehicle is very high when it rolls off of the dealer’s lot.

Word: Depredation
Meaning: damage or destruction
Example: The hurricane left much depredation in the city.

Word: Depressant
Meaning: a substance that causes you to feel sad or despondent
Example: Because alcohol is a depressant; it can cause those who drink it to become sad and withdrawn.

Word: Depressed
Meaning: feeling extremely sad and unhappy
Example: The depressed mother decided to talk to a counselor about her feelings of unhappiness.

Word: Depression
Meaning: a state of mind producing serious; long-term lowering of enjoyment of life; period of unhappiness
Example: A small number of people suffer from depression so severe that they may need to be admitted to the hospital.

Word: Depression
Meaning: a mood disorder characterized by low self-esteem; feelings of sadness; and a general loss of interest in things
Example: After falling into a deep depression; Gina went to the doctor to ask for help with her extremely somber mood.

Word: Deprivation
Meaning: the lack of something which is viewed as necessary
Example: After a couple of days of sleep deprivation; I become really grouchy.

Word: Deprive
Meaning: to take something away (and keep it away); deny someone of something
Example: Max is a racist who wants to deprive black people from their right to vote on election day.

Word: Deprived
Meaning: going without things that are required for a healthy or happy existence
Example: If the plant is deprived of water; it will die.

Word: Depth
Meaning: how deep something is as measured from top to bottom
Example: The depth of the lake hasn’t been measured; but the water seems very shallow.

Word: Deputation
Meaning: a body of individuals sent to speak for a group or nation
Example: Carl was a member of the deputation of local businessmen who attended the state tourism convention.

Word: Deputize
Meaning: to make someone a deputy a second in command or assistant who usually takes charge when his or her superior is absent
Example: The sheriff made the decision to deputize lieutenant McDaniel so that he could run the jail in his place.

Word: Deracinate
Meaning: to pull up and move from a location or environment
Example: When the careless neighbor failed to pay his rent for months; the landlord would immediately deracinate them even if it made them homeless.

Word: Derail
Meaning: to come off the tracks
Example: Since significant damage was done to the tracks; the train would derail if it passed over the damage.

Word: Derange
Meaning: to cause someone to go insane or to cause disorder in something
Example: Being stranded on a tiny island surrounded by sharks would derange anyone.

Word: Deranged
Meaning: disturbed or upset; especially mentally
Example: The deranged gunman started shooting wildly into the mall while shouting violent and hateful curses.

Word: Derelict
Meaning: in bad shape as a result of neglect
Example: Out of fear for my safety; I chose not to walk inside of the derelict barn.

Word: Dereliction
Meaning: the neglect or disregard for something or someone
Example: Riots brought about the dereliction of looters who could care less about the shop owners when they vandalized their stores.

Word: Deride
Meaning: to subject to bitter ridicule
Example: The movie critic took every opportunity to deride the A-list actor for making the awful film.

Word: Derision
Meaning: Severe mocking and ridiculing of someone
Example: The kids erupted in derision when a handicapped man entered in the classroom.

Word: Derisively
Meaning: in a mocking and demeaning manner
Example: The bullies laughed derisively at the boy as he presented his project.

Word: Derisory
Meaning: laughably small or inadequate 
Example: The company's derisory offer of a 1 percent pay rise has been overwhelmingly rejected by the workforce; who are demanding a rise of 3 percent.

Word: Derivation
Meaning: the origin from which something is developed
Example: The word doesn’t have a specific derivation; but it probably comes from a French phrase.

Word: Derivative
Meaning: an object or idea that is produced from something else
Example: The new antibiotic is listed as a derivative of penicillin because it was produced from a penicillin base.

Word: Derive
Meaning: to acquire from something else
Example: It is impossible to derive the correct answer without the proper formula.

Word: Dermatology
Meaning: the health division involving skin and its problems
Example: Instead of seeing my general practitioner; I knew I needed someone who practiced dermatology to treat my skin rash.

Word: Dermis
Meaning: the middle skin layer where nerve endings; blood vessels; hair follicles; and other biological structures are found
Example: The nurse injected the medication into the dermis that lies beneath the top layer of skin.

Word: Derogate
Meaning: to offend or criticize a person or thing
Example: The critic didn't mean to derogate the author; only his poorly written novel.

Word: Derogatory 
Meaning: conveying a poor opinion of something or someone
Example: The public criticized the basketball team owner after he made derogatory remarks about minorities.

Word: Derring-do 
Meaning: acts that depend upon courage or bravery
Example: The soldier received a medal of valor for his derring-do on the battlefield.

Word: Desalination
Meaning: process of removing salt from sea water in order to make drinking water
Example: The water needed desalination before it could be considered safe to drink.

Word: Descant
Meaning: to talk for a long time
Example: I never have any desire to descant with anyone about anything; since I prefer to keep my conversations short and sweet.

Word: Descend
Meaning: to move down from a higher area
Example: After checking out the crime scene; the detective realized the burglar had to descend from the balcony by way of a climbing rope.

Word: Descendant
Meaning: descending from a biological ancestor
Example: As a descendant of Abraham Lincoln; I feel the need to act in a noble way that would make my forbearer proud.

Word: Descent
Meaning: an action of moving downward
Example: The plane’s descent was so fast that my ears popped.

Word: Describe
Meaning: to describe and object or event either out loud or in writing
Example: When asked to describe her father; the girl thought of the words ‘funny’ and ‘kind’.

Word: Description
Meaning: an account or narrative
Example: The detailed description of the product was listed incorrectly on the label.

Word: Descry
Meaning: to catch sight of
Example: After conducting experiments for several years; the scientist was able to descry the cause of the disease.

Word: Desecrate
Meaning: to treat a sacred place or object with disrespect
Example: Do not desecrate the temple by speaking loudly during your visit.

Word: Desensitized
Meaning: made less responsive or less sensitive
Example: Children can become desensitized to aggression when they play violent videogames.

Word: Desert
Meaning: a dry; bare area of land; especially one with little water or plants
Example: My aunt's house has no grass because she lives in a desert region.

Word: Deserted
Meaning: abandoned; without people
Example: It was a strong clue that the restaurant either had poor service or terrible food since it looked deserted.

Word: Desertification
Meaning: the process of rich soil becoming dry and bare due to erosion; lack of water or overuse of the land
Example: After fifty years of farming; the farmer had to relocate to land with more fertile soil because of the desertification of his former plot of land.

Word: Deserve
Meaning: to be worthy or fit for something; often a reward or punishment
Example: The students deserve an A for the amazing project they made out of popsicle sticks.

Word: Deserve
Meaning: to have earned something because of actions or qualities
Example: The criminal might deserve to go to jail; but the judge had mercy on him.

Word: Desiccated
Meaning: dried out; lifeless
Example: The professional soccer player became desiccated after being in a car accident that left him in a coma.

Word: Desideratum
Meaning: a wished-for or desired thing
Example: A desideratum when car shopping is price.

Word: Design
Meaning: a plan to make; or sketch plans for something 
Example: We will hire an architect to design our new kitchen to include more cabinet space and a larger pantry.

Word: Designate
Meaning: appointed; chosen
Example: We made sure to designate a sober driver; because we knew that by the end of the night everyone would be stone drunk.

Word: Desirable
Meaning: worth getting or having; wanted by most people
Example: The most desirable item in the vending machine was cookies.

Word: Desire
Meaning: a wish; a feeling of want
Example: I get a desire to slap Phil in the face when he starts to whine like a baby.

Word: Desirous
Meaning: wanting something very much
Example: After years of vocal lessons; Crystal was desirous to be a famous singer.

Word: Desist
Meaning: to stop doing something
Example: The document from the court orders the magazine to desist from publishing false stories about the actor.

Word: Desolate
Meaning: empty; without life
Example: Since the anchor stores closed; the shopping center has become a desolate wasteland.

Word: Despair
Meaning: 
Example: Helpless and alone; the prisoner of war fell victim to a deep despair.

Word: Desperate
Meaning: a feeling of hopelessness in which someone is willing to try the impossible to solve a problem
Example: In a desperate attempt to win the battle; the general ordered his troops to charge at the fortified enemy position with their inferior numbers.

Word: Desperation
Meaning: being so overwhelmed by a feeling that you feel compelled to act in a rash or crazed way
Example: Juliet’s desperation to be with Romeo inspired her to make the terrible decision to fake her death.

Word: Despicable
Meaning: worthy of intense dislike
Example: The despicable man was disliked by everyone in his neighborhood.

Word: Despise
Meaning: to look upon with disdain
Example: Because I despise the taste of white milk; I never drink it.

Word: Despite
Meaning: disgust; hatred
Example: Since the old man did not trust modern conveniences; he looked at the mobile phone with despite.

Word: Despondency
Meaning: a condition in which one has no hope
Example: My therapist is helping me deal with the despondency I feel when I recall my abusive childhood.

Word: Despondent
Meaning: very sad and without hope
Example: Marilyn was despondent after her husband of fifty years died.

Word: Despot
Meaning: a brutal ruler who controls everything 
Example:  Once the despot killed his parents; he was able to run the country with an iron fist.

Word: Despotic
Meaning: associated with or typical of a tyrant 
Example: Many employees have resigned in order to escape the rule of their despotic manager.

Word: Despotism
Meaning: a type of government in which one individual or group governs with complete authority; usually in a harsh manner
Example: The only way to end despotism is by removing the ruthless king from the throne.

Word: Destination
Meaning: the place that something or someone is going to
Example: The final destination of our vacation was the Hawaiian islands.

Word: Destine
Meaning: to intend for something to fulfill a certain purpose
Example: When you create something; you destine it for a certain goal; a certain role that it was primarily designed to fulfill.

Word: Destiny
Meaning: what's meant to be; fixed order of things; a power that determines your future
Example: I believe that my destiny has been so arranged from the beginning; and that there is a higher force at play.

Word: Destitute
Meaning: utterly lacking
Example: Even though I grew up in a destitute family; it did not stop me from attending an Ivy League school

Word: Destroy
Meaning: to damage something to the point that it cannot be used or doesn’t exist
Example: Using a shredder to destroy the document; the clerk left no trace of the private information.

Word: Destruction
Meaning: demolition and damage
Example: After the tornado struck the small town; the destruction became evident with the houses being flattened to the ground.

Word: Dictate
Meaning: to set rules or give directions that must be followed
Example: Customs dictate women should be served before men during formal meals.

Word: Dictation
Meaning: the act of reciting information that will later be published in some manner
Example: A court stenographer knows a great deal about dictation because he or she must record every word spoken in court.

Word: Dictator
Meaning: a ruler who wields absolute authority over his country and holds and/or abuses an extraordinary amount of personal power
Example: Often a dictator has many followers because of their dynamic and controlling personality.

Word: Dictatorial
Meaning: having a tendency to tell people what to do in a way that is like a dictator
Example: The dictatorial boss constantly shouted orders at his nervous employees.

Word: Dictatorship
Meaning: a form of government in which one person has total power
Example: There is no freedom when living in a dictatorship.

Word: Diction
Meaning: the way in which a person speaks or writes
Example: The writer’s diction is characterized by short simple sentences that are easily understood.

Word: Dictionary
Meaning: a book that lists words and their meanings
Example: The teacher urged the students to use the dictionary to look up any words that they didn’t know the meaning of.

Word: Dictum
Meaning: a statement or well-known remark that expresses an important idea or rule
Example: As Sarah waited in the unemployment line; she recognized the truth of the dictum; “last hired; first fired”.

Word: Didactic
Meaning: designed or intended to teach
Example: While the professor’s lectures were designed to be didactic; they only served to confuse the students.

Word: Die
Meaning: to stop living
Example: The plants in my garden will wither and die without water.

Word: Diesel
Meaning: an internal combustion engine in which heat produced by the compression of air in the cylinder is used to ignite the fuel
Example: Diesel fuel is different than regular gasoline because fuel is injected into compressed air; whereas with gasoline; fuel and air are mixed and then compressed.

Word: Differ
Meaning: to disagree or clash
Example: After discussing the dress code; the teacher’s opinion of wanting longer skirt requirements would differ from the students wanting to wear shorter skirts.

Word: Different
Meaning: another; separate
Example: You should take a different path home since your usual route is blocked by traffic.

Word: Differentiate
Meaning: to identify as dissimilar
Example: The cashier told me a sticker would differentiate the regular cheeseburger from the cheeseburger without pickles.

Word: Difficult
Meaning: needing a significant amount of skill or ability to complete
Example: It is difficult to perform any sport at an Olympic level; as it requires years of practice and dedication to reach that level of skill.

Word: Diffidence
Meaning: the state of being timid or shy; not confident
Example: You shouldn’t be so diffidence about your achievements when you’ve done very well.

Word: Diffident
Meaning: lacking confidence in one’s ability or self
Example: Because she felt unattractive; Mary was diffident and kept to herself at parties.

Word: Diffraction
Meaning: the process in which light waves are spread out by passing over an edge or a thin aperture
Example: The dispersion of light occurs through diffraction; when light passes through a narrow opening like the branches of a tree.

Word: Diffuse
Meaning: to spread out over a large area
Example: They used the essential oils to diffuse fragrance throughout the entire room.

Word: Diffusion
Meaning: spreading something from one place to another
Example: Diffusion of the lemon and lime in the air caused a citrusy aroma to move throughout the house.

Word: Dig
Meaning: a jab or poke at someone in order to tease or get their attention
Example: When the young teenager continued to argue with the man; her mother gave a slight dig to her side in order for the teenager to stop talking.

Word: Digest
Meaning: to divide food down so that it can be soaked up into the body’s systems
Example: It is recommended to wait at least 20 minutes after eating to go swimming so that you have enough time to digest your food.

Word: Digestion
Meaning: the method which divides the food down so that it can be used by the body’s systems
Example: Bacteria can develop within the stomach walls which results in the challenges of digestion.

Word: Digit
Meaning: a finger on a hand
Example: If someone was stealing; barbaric tribes resorted to only cutting off their digit instead of their whole hand.

Word: Digital
Meaning: using numbers in numerical form for a specific function
Example: Young children find reading a digital clock much easier to read than an analog clock with its hands pointing to the numbers.

Word: Dignified
Meaning: respectable
Example: She did not think it was dignified behavior for chaperones to dance at the prom.

Word: Dignitaries
Meaning: an official considered to be in high standing
Example: Dignitaries from twelve different countries filed into the assembly room at the world conference to discuss environmental concerns.

Word: Dignity
Meaning: a characteristic worthy of respect and esteem
Example: The first lady’s quiet dignity made her a media favorite.

Word: Digress
Meaning: not staying on topic; to go off on a tangent
Example: Because abortion is difficult for me to talk about; I will digress from this topic.

Word: Digression
Meaning: a temporary departure from the norm
Example: Playing football during the winter was a digression for the baseball star.

Word: Dike
Meaning: a long wall built to prevent flooding from the sea
Example: The sea-port’s only hope is to build a long dike along the city to keep the flood water from taking over.

Word: Dilapidated
Meaning: rundown; in bad shape 
Example: The dilapidated house on our street is sure to lower the property values of the homes in our neighborhood.

Word: Dilate 
Meaning: to cause to expand
Example: The doctor will repair the narrowed vessels by inserting a tube to dilate them.

Word: Dilatory
Meaning: intended to cause delay
Example: My daughter used dilatory tactics to stay up past her bedtime.

Word: Dilemma
Meaning: a situation in which you have to make a tough choice
Example: Marty’s dilemma was that he couldn’t decide what college to attend.

Word: Dilettante
Meaning: a person whose interest in an art or in an area of knowledge is not very serious
Example: When it comes to learning how to play the guitar; my daughter is a dilettante who will practice one day but not the next day.

Word: Diligence
Meaning: constant and consistent effort
Example: The researchers continue their diligence and are constantly looking for a cancer cure.

Word: Diligent
Meaning: careful in carrying out tasks and duties
Example: The teacher believes the diligent students will check their answers.

Word: Dimensional
Meaning: related to measurements; especially; width; length; and height
Example: The three-dimensional object is a much longer than it is wide.

Word: Diminish
Meaning: to become smaller or lessen
Example: The medicine caused my headache to diminish.

Word:  Diminution 
Meaning: a lessening or reduction
Example: The diminution of military troops will leave our country more vulnerable to invasion.

Word: Diminutive
Meaning: very short or small
Example: Surrounded by tall skyscrapers; the three-story apartment building looked diminutive.

Word: Dimple
Meaning: a small; natural indention in some part of the human body; especially the cheek
Example: When she smiles; a small dimple shows in the middle of Grace’s cheek.

Word: Din
Meaning: a booming unpleasant racket
Example: The din from my neighbor’s party will probably keep me up all night.

Word: Dingy
Meaning: filthy; discolored; often dark or depressing
Example: Her dress was a dingy grey that was two sizes too big and could have used a wash.

Word: Dinosaur
Meaning: an (usually large) ancient reptile that lived millions of years ago
Example: The dinosaur bones were buried deep within the earth and painted a detailed picture of what life was like as a reptile years ago.

Word: Dint
Meaning: as a result of; by way of
Example: The candidate seems to have more influence by dint of money and not actual speaking ability.

Word: Diorama
Meaning: a small-scale scene using tangible figurines or modeling clay
Example: From the diorama; the children could see how the cavemen lived during prehistoric times depicting the cavemen; his shelter and the way he cooked his food.

Word: Diploid
Meaning: of a cell; having two complete sets of chromosomes; one from each parent
Example: A diploid is a type of cell that contains two sets of chromosomes.

Word: Diplomacy
Meaning: the management of relationships between the governments of different countries
Example: My aunt was an ambassador who worked on the diplomacy between America and France.

Word: Diplomatic
Meaning: describes a way of dealing with people that are polite and tactful
Example: Because he isn’t very diplomatic; the politician often finds himself involved in verbal disputes.

Word: Dire 
Meaning: extremely pressing
Example: Because this is a dire emergency; we need medical assistance right away!

Word: Direct Democracy
Meaning: a type of government where the power lies directly in the hands of the people instead of representatives
Example: Those living in ancient Greece practiced Direct Democracy; meaning each person got a say in how the city-state was governed.

Word: Direct
Meaning: to cause someone or something to move in a specific way or direction
Example: The stage manager began to direct the actors on where to stand on stage.

Word: Direct
Meaning: to cause someone or something to move in a particular direction
Example: The movers asked the homeowners to direct them to the kitchen so that they could bring in the appliances.

Word: Directive
Meaning: an order or change that comes from an authority figure typically in charge of a group of people
Example: The School Board created a new directive for all teachers to complete 300 hours of instruction for teaching a foreign language.

Word: Directory
Meaning: a list of names; telephone numbers; addresses; or other cataloged information
Example: When you call the office; you will be prompted to select an employee’s name from the directory.

Word: Dirge
Meaning: a sorrowful literary or musical composition that is used to honor a deceased person 
Example: When Kim sang a dirge for her deceased father; she brought everyone to tears.

Word: Dirigible
Meaning: something that is capable of being steered or directed
Example: All cars are dirigible in nature; capable of being steered or otherwise controlled by the driver.

Word: Disabuse
Meaning: to make aware of the truth
Example: If you wish to continue to believe that falsehood; I will not disabuse you by telling you the truth.

Word: Disadvantage
Meaning: a drawback or obstacle
Example: One disadvantage of going to the beach on the holiday weekend is that the shores will be jam-packed with people.

Word: Disaffected
Meaning: rebellious and resentful; especially against authority
Example: The disaffected rebels rioted in the streets after the latest police involved killing.

Word: Disagree
Meaning: to hold or express a different opinion
Example: Kim and Emma disagree about which movie they should see; so they may go bowling instead.

Word: Disagreeable
Meaning: not nice; pleasant; or enjoyable in nature
Example: Mark is an overly disagreeable man; often patronizing others and just outright antagonizing the people he doesn’t like.

Word: Disagreement
Meaning: an argument caused by people having differences of opinion
Example: A heated disagreement between the two friends caused them to stop speaking.

Word: Disallow
Meaning: to revoke or take away a privilege that was previously allowed
Example: Many parents disallow their children to participate in their favorite activities or hang out with their friends when they’re grounded.

Word: Disambiguate
Meaning: to show the differences between two or more meanings clearly
Example: Punctuation in a sentence helps one disambiguate the meaning of each phrase.

Word: Disappear
Meaning: to vanish; to cease to be visible
Example: With a blink of an eye; the magician was able to make the rabbit disappear from his hat.

Word: Disappointed
Meaning: saddened and upset because of a letdown
Example: The police disappointed that no witnesses came forward to talk to them about the crime.

Word: Disappointment
Meaning: a feeling of unhappiness that occurs after something hoped for didn’t go as planned
Example: After she didn’t make the cheerleading team; Tatiana was filled with a feeling of disappointment.

Word: Disapprobation
Meaning: a demonstration of disapproval
Example: I lied about my failing grades because I did not want to experience my parents’ disapprobation.

Word: Disapprove
Meaning: to reject or refuse something
Example: When Sarah’s boyfriend came in to meet her parents; she knew they would instantly disapprove of him due to his many tattoos; obnoxious attitude and unemployment status.

Word: Disarmament
Meaning: taking up or giving away military weapons
Example: The security council demanded full disarmament and that the group give up their weapons within twenty-four hours.

Word: Disarming
Meaning: having the ability to decrease suspicions and fears
Example: Because Danny is a disarming man and can easily reduce buyer fears; he is a great car salesman.

Word: Disarray 
Meaning: in a state of disorder
Example: Since the toddler twins have been acting wildly today; my entire house is in disarray.

Word: Disaster
Meaning: an event that causes great damage or hardship
Example: The bride’s rainy wedding day was a disaster that started with missing rings and ended with a run-away groom.

Word: Disastrous
Meaning: catastrophic; devastating
Example: The disastrous date ended with the woman running to the bathroom in tears and the man skipping out on the check.

Word: Disavow
Meaning: refuse to own; reject
Example: When news of the band’s breakup surfaced; the manager had to disavow any part in the undoing.

Word: Disband
Meaning: to separate or disperse permanently
Example: When the Musketeers did disband; there was very little safety in France because the men could only be productive as a group.

Word: Disbelief 
Meaning: the sentiment that comes with doubting an individual or thing
Example: It is obvious from the disbelief on Ellen’s face she does not believe her husband’s story about working late.

Word: Disbelieve
Meaning: to refuse or reject the belief or credence of something
Example: The proof provided by the research made it hard to disbelieve in climate change.

Word: Disburse
Meaning: to pay out; expend; usually from a public fund or treasury
Example: The federal government said it was studying whether to disburse more relief funds to the state after the damage appears to be severe.

Word: Discard
Meaning: to throw something away because it is considered not valuable or needed
Example: Since I decided to discard all of my previous emails; I did not have the evidence stating that I loaned the woman money due to her admission in a June email.

Word: Discern
Meaning: to be able to see; recognize; understand; or decide something
Example: It was not difficult to discern that Ellen killed her husband for the million dollar life insurance policy.

Word: Discernible
Meaning: noticeable
Example: High gas prices are expected to have a discernible effect on the number of road trips taken this summer.

Word: Discernment
Meaning: smart judgement
Example: My grandmother says she has the gift of discernment which helps her when she meets people for the first time.

Word: Discharge
Meaning: to dismiss or terminate
Example: When the teenager was caught yelling at a customer; his boss decided to discharge the teenager’s employment.

Word: Disciple
Meaning: a student or follower of a teacher or philosopher
Example: After seeing his resurrection; the disciple of Christ set out to spread his message throughout the land.

Word: Disciplinarian
Meaning: a person who lives and governs by rules and strictly enforces them
Example: Her former military father was such a disciplinarian that he made everyone in the house wake up at 0500 and run three miles.

Word: Disciplinary
Meaning: concerned with making sure rules are followed and not broken
Example: Disciplinary action was taken by the principal after the student refused to listen to the teacher.

Word: Discipline
Meaning: a learned behavior that enables the individual to have control over their actions
Example: Habitual runners have such strong discipline that they wake up everyday for their jog even when they're sick or vacationing.

Word: Disclaim
Meaning: to deny; as a claim; to refuse
Example: We cannot; in conscience; ignore these facts or disclaim responsibility after Steven found additional information.

Word: Disclaimer
Meaning: a statement that rejects responsibility
Example: Prescription drug commercials are mandated to issue a disclaimer; describing the drug's side effects.

Word: Disclose
Meaning: to reveal information; disclose
Example: During the interview; the would-be informant agreed to disclose what he knew about the crime.

Word: Disclosure
Meaning: the act of revealing something; making known
Example: There is urgency in the plaintiff gaining full disclosure of all relevant documents.

Word: Discolor
Meaning: to change or lose color
Example: Washing light laundry with dark may cause your clothes to discolor; completely ruining them.

Word: Discombobulated
Meaning: in a confused or bewildered condition 
Example: I felt discombobulated after working twelve hours a day for seven straight days.

Word: Discomfit
Meaning: to make a person feel uncomfortable
Example: The manager’s mean look served to discomfit me during the interview.

Word: Discomfiture
Meaning: a feeling of embarrassment or discomfort
Example: After he lost the election to his rival; a sense of discomfiture crept over the now embarrassed politician.

Word: Discomfort
Meaning: being bothered by something to the point that it causes pain or embarrassment
Example: Whenever Brielle caught her parents kissing she was filled with discomfort and quickly ran from the room.

Word: Disconcert
Meaning: to upset; frustrate; or embarrass
Example: John would disconcert his parents by not coming home after school.

Word: Disconcerting
Meaning: tending to cause discomfort; uneasiness or alarm; unsettling; troubling; upsetting.
Example: I found it very disconcerting to be in the wedding of my former boyfriend.

Word: Disconnect
Meaning: break in an existing connection
Example: To be sure electrical appliances and devices won’t be damaged during an lightning storm; everyone should turn off then disconnect the power plugs.

Word: Disconsolate
Meaning: sad beyond comforting; inconsolable
Example: The little girl was so disconsolate after her puppy ran away that her parents put up posters all over the neighborhood.

Word: Discontent
Meaning: unhappiness; not being at peace with a situation or circumstance
Example: Because of the increase in police related shootings; unhappiness and discontent spread through the city.

Word: Discontinue
Meaning: to stop doing or making something
Example: Nike decided to discontinue the new brand of shoes when sales didn’t reach expected levels.

Word: Discord
Meaning: tension or strife resulting from a lack of agreement
Example: Knowing that discord is destructive in the classroom; the teacher wanted to foster a sense of community among her students.

Word: Discordant
Meaning: harsh or unpleasant in sound
Example: Without proper guidance; the band produces discordant music that no one wants to hear.

Word: Discount
Meaning: a reduction of the usually price of an object or service
Example: The winter clothing is being offered with a discount since it now summertime.

Word: Discouraged
Meaning: having lost confidence or hope
Example: The two dogs became discouraged from the dog biscuit rolling under the couch.

Word: Discourse
Meaning: written or spoken communication or debate
Example: The discourse between the two candidates has not been friendly.

Word: Discourteous
Meaning: rude; impolite
Example: Although she considers herself a straight-shooter; my aunt’s blunt tone often comes across as rude and discourteous.

Word: Discovery
Meaning: the finding; locating; or uncovering of something
Example: The discovery of gold led many people to travel to Texas by wagon.

Word: Discredit
Meaning: to harm the good reputation
Example: The way Leonard responded to the customer was a discredit to the company’s service policy.

Word: Discreet
Meaning: not attracting attention; being careful about what one says or does to avoid embarrassing or upsetting others
Example: Hoping to avoid detection; the shoplifter tried to be discreet while walking through the store.

Word: Discrepancy
Meaning: a difference or inconsistency especially between things that should be the same
Example: A discrepancy in the financial reports is the reason for the audit.

Word: Discrete
Meaning: separate; distinct; individual
Example: Brown and white rice are two discrete varieties.

Word: Dispassionate
Meaning: not being affected by or showing feelings 
Example: The dispassionate father watched television while his son cried on the floor.

Word: Dispatch
Meaning: to quickly send off an individual or thing
Example: According to the terms of the app; the computer will dispatch a vehicle to collect us within thirty seconds.

Word: Dispel
Meaning: to cause to depart or be broken apart
Example: The flowers from my husband do not dispel the fact I believe he is cheating on me.

Word: Dispensation
Meaning: immunity from a law or rule 
Example: In our church; women who have abortions are not given a dispensation of forgiveness.

Word: Dispense
Meaning: distribute; or give out
Example: Every pharmacist must accurately dispense the medicine into the proper containers in order for no one to get sick.

Word: Disperse
Meaning: to spread out
Example: As soon as the last bell rings; students disperse out of the building and head to their buses.

Word: Dispirited
Meaning: having lost all hope; disheartened
Example: After losing the final game of the season; the once excited team was now sad and dispirited.

Word: Displace
Meaning: to forcibly move people from their homeland; or to move someone or something
Example: The destructive fire would displace many people from their homes.

Word: Displacement 
Meaning: the condition of being moved to another location
Example: The involuntary displacement of the Native American Indians was a tragic incident that ended the lives of many people.

Word: Display
Meaning: to actively exhibit something much like in a museum
Example: Museums display artwork from hundreds of years ago.

Word: Displease
Meaning: to dissatisfy or annoy someone
Example: The new anti-racism laws are sure to displease all the racists in this country.

Word: Displeasure
Meaning: feeling of being displeased or annoyed with someone or something
Example: The irate couple got up to leave in disgust; and the woman barked her displeasure at the waiter.

Word: Disposable income
Meaning: money that is left over after all debt/bills are paid
Example: After paying his bills; Alfie spends all of his disposable income on new clothes and eating out.

Word: Disposable
Meaning: easily expendable and then throw away
Example: Because you can't bring shaving equipment on a plane; many travelers buy disposable razors for the duration of their trip.

Word: Dispose
Meaning: to toss out or give to another individual
Example: I need to dispose of the broken blender and buy a new one.

Word: Disposition
Meaning: the way that someone normally thinks and behaves 
Example: Even though the old man appeared grumpy; he really had a pleasant disposition.

Word: Dispossess
Meaning: to deprive someone of the possession of land; especially by evicting them
Example: Once the real estate investor neglected to pay his property taxes; the government took action to dispossess his land.

Word: Disproportionate
Meaning: not in proportion; unfair in size
Example: With a disproportionate number of students and staff; the small school scrambled to fit everyone in a classroom.

Word: Disprove
Meaning: to prove that something is not true
Example: Many brilliant scientists in the past had to work to disprove the widely held notions of the public in their lifetimes; such as the shape of the world or what the universe revolves around.

Word: Disputation
Meaning: a quarrel or disagreement
Example: In order to avoid a disputation about money; Amy handed her credit card to her husband.

Word: Disputatious
Meaning: taking pleasure in arguments
Example: Because Ashley is a disputatious person; she is a huge asset to the debate team.

Word: Dispute
Meaning: to contest or argue about something
Example: When I saw unauthorized charges on my credit card; I called the bank to dispute the amounts.

Word: Disqualify
Meaning: to make someone ineligible for something (such as a prize) because of an offense
Example: When they found the runner had used illegal drugs; the committee members decided to disqualify him from the race.

Word: Disquiet
Meaning: a feeling of worry and anxiety
Example: The novel is a tense thriller that will disquiet the reader.

Word: Disquietude
Meaning: a condition of worry or concern
Example: The little boy listened in disquietude as his parents argued in the kitchen.

Word: Disquisition
Meaning: a long or elaborate essay or discussion on a particular subject
Example: The history student's disquisition was a forty page long manifesto about the benefits of communism.

Word: Disregard
Meaning: to ignore or dismiss something
Example: If you disregard the red light at an intersection and keep driving you are not only breaking the law but also endangering your life.

Word: Disreputable
Meaning: not worthy of respect
Example: The mob associates decided to kill the disreputable informant.

Word: Disrepute
Meaning: the status of being untrustworthy or dishonorable
Example: Once the college fell into disrepute because of the hazing scandal; its number of applicants declined.

Word: Disrespect
Meaning: to show a lack of respect to someone or something
Example: This bill shows the government's disrespect for basic human rights and established legal principles.

Word: Disrupt
Meaning: to interrupt something by causing a problem or disturbance
Example: The jealous younger sibling attempted to disrupt his brother’s birthday party by throwing a tantrum to place the attention on him instead.

Word: Dissatisfaction
Meaning: a state or feeling in which one is not happy or content
Example: The public’s dissatisfaction continued to governor sunk the state’s economy.

Word: Dissatisfied
Meaning: not happy or content
Example: Dissatisfied with the restaurant service; the man asked the terrible waitress if he could speak to her manager.

Word: Dissect
Meaning: to cut open and examine
Example: Cutting into it with a knife; the biologist began to dissect the animal to look for disease.

Word: Dissemble
Meaning: to disguise or conceal behind a false appearance
Example: Her plan was to dissemble her intentions from her husband so she could successfully plan him a surprise party.

Word: Disseminate
Meaning: to scatter or spread widely
Example: With encyclopedias in every classroom; we will disseminate a wealth of information to all students.

Word: Dissension
Meaning: a disagreement that leads to arguing and discord
Example: Dissension was growing between the two political parties as more scandals came out through the media.

Word: Dissent
Meaning: to differ in opinion
Example: More than likely; my father will dissent with the idea I am old enough to set my own curfew.

Word: Dissentient
Meaning: opposing the majority
Example: Dissentient voices opposed all of those in congress that supported the bill.

Word: Disservice
Meaning: an ill turn or injury
Example: She has done a great disservice to her cause by suggesting that violence is justifiable.

Word: Dissident
Meaning: a person who opposes the current political structure; group or laws; one who disagrees
Example: Charlie’s family members were devout Catholics; while he was considered dissident for not identifying with the religion.

Word: Dissimilar
Meaning: not alike; having nothing in common
Example: Although they have the same parents; the brother and sister are dissimilar in look and personality.

Word: Dissimulation
Meaning: the action of covering the truth
Example: Many anti-government groups believe the president is always conducting acts of dissimulation to deceive the public.

Word: Dissipate
Meaning: to drive away
Example: According to meteorologists; the storm will dissipate after a few hours and make way for the sunshine.

Word: Dissociate
Meaning: to distance or detach someone or something from a group
Example: When Beverly’s friends started to get into trouble with drugs and alcohol; she decided to dissociate from them and find nicer friends.

Word: Dissolute
Meaning: given to immoral behavior 
Example: My cousin is a dissolute woman who likes to irritate her religious parents by performing immoral deeds.

Word: Dissolve
Meaning: to liquefy; melt into a fluid
Example: Sugar will dissolve quickly in a hot cup of coffee.

Word: Dissonance
Meaning: a lack of agreement; generally between what one believes and how one acts
Example: His cruel abuse showed a dissonance with his loving words.

Word: Dissuade
Meaning: to convince an individual to not try or complete something
Example: Jealous people will always try to dissuade you from trying to be successful.

Word: Distal
Meaning: something that is distant from something else
Example: The paramedics were concerned with their patient’s distal pulse because there was a lot of time between beats.

Word: Distance
Meaning: an amount of physical space between two things
Example: The distance between Earth and the Moon is considerable for us to consider; even though it is almost nothing compared to the true vastness of space.

Word: Distant
Meaning: far enough away to be out of immediate reach
Example: I wanted to change the channel; but the remote was just distant enough that I would have to get up to grab it; and I didn’t want to move.

Word: Distant
Meaning: far away from each other physically or in time
Example: The most distant celestial body from the Sun in our solar system is Pluto; a dwarf planet at the farthest reaches of our immediate space.

Word: Distaste
Meaning: dislike or mild disdain for something
Example: I have a mild distaste for anything bitter; but I would certainly eat those foods if I were hungry enough.

Word: Distasteful
Meaning: unpleasant or offensive; causing dislike
Example: Donning a distasteful outfit; the protester’s offensive garb made many people upset.

Word: Distemper
Meaning: an infectious viral disease found in animals; especially dogs
Example: The puppy was vaccinated for distemper and several other viral respiratory diseases.

Word: Distend
Meaning: to become larger from internal pressure
Example: The hernia caused his stomach to distend from organ misplacement.

Word: Distill
Meaning: to extract out the essential meaning or most important pieces of something
Example: Though he didn’t know some of the words; the reader was able to distill most of what the author was saying.

Word: Distinct 
Meaning: different in an obvious way
Example: Everyone’s DNA is distinct and unique.

Word: Distinction
Meaning: a clear difference or contrast between similar people or things
Example: Although they are identical twins; there is a noticeable distinction between the colors of their hair.

Word: Distinctive
Meaning: specifying as unique; special or characteristic
Example: The only distinctive quality of this job candidate was his ability to speak to clients calmly because his clerical skills were a mess.

Word: Distinctness
Meaning: being easily distinguishable from other things due to particular attributes
Example: People have distinctness about them; possessing traits in both appearance and personality that set them apart from one another.

Word: Distinguish 
Meaning: to recognize something or someone as being unique
Example: A police detective often finds himself in the position of having to distinguish between a lie and a truth.

Word: Distinguishable
Meaning: being able to clearly see or hear something from within a whole and recognize it as different
Example: The fuzzy words on the page were only distinguishable after Mike put on his glasses.

Word: Distinguished
Meaning: describing something that is noteworthy or otherwise significant for some reason
Example: The General is a distinguished officer; having performed admirably in two wars and being directly responsible for victory in three major battles.

Word: Distort
Meaning: to bring something out of shape or to misrepresent
Example: My friend had an app on her phone that would distort our faces in amusing ways.

Word: Distortion
Meaning: an irregularity or abnormality in the shape or perception of something
Example: After getting hit by a flashbang; the victim suffers severe distortion in their ability to both hear and see.

Word: Distract
Meaning: to misdirect attention from one focus to another usually as an act of deception
Example: During the Trojan War; a great wooden horse was sent to distract the soldiers and allow the enemy Greeks to enter Troy and win the war.

Word: Distraught
Meaning: so upset that one cannot behave normally
Example: When my father died; I was so distraught I dropped out of school.

Word: Distress
Meaning: physical or mental anguish
Example: The anxiety attack left me in a bit of distress.

Word: Distribute
Meaning: to divide into portions and dispense
Example: Churches often distribute pamphlets to invite people to attend their Sunday service.

Word: Distribution
Meaning: the provision of goods and materials to multiple recipients
Example: Multiple people won the contest held by the state; but they would have to wait for the prize distribution to take place a month later.

Word: Distributive
Meaning: related to the act of giving or spreading out
Example: The distributive center is in charge of getting all of the products made at the factory out and into the stores.

Word: District
Meaning: an area of a country or a city
Example: Moving to a new district; it was difficult for the student to adjust to his new school.

Word: Distrust
Meaning: doubt in the ability to trust someone or something
Example: I have always had a strong distrust for politicians; as they never seem to follow through on the promises they make to the public.

Word: Disturb
Meaning: to bother or concern someone
Example: The sight of all the violence that was taking place during the riots served to disturb my mother; who was always a bit on the naïve side.

Word: Ditch
Meaning: to get rid of something
Example: Michael was willing to ditch his baseball cap and jeans for a wedding day suit.

Word: Dither
Meaning: to hesitate or be indecisive
Example: Terry tends to dither when someone asks him where to have lunch; as he is never able to decide on a restaurant.

Word: Ditto
Meaning: that which was stated before; the aforesaid; the above; the same; likewise
Example: When I took notes for class; I used ditto marks to show repetition.

Word: Ditto
Meaning: a word or mark used to agree with something said or to avoid repeating something
Example: “Ditto;” said Alex when agreeing with his friend that strawberry pie is the best kind.

Word: Diurnal
Meaning: energetic during the daylight hours
Example: Because bats are not active during the day; they are not diurnal creatures.

Word: Diverge
Meaning: to separate into different directions
Example: The interstate began to diverge into two exit ramps.

Word: Divergence
Meaning: the process or state of separating
Example: The married couple is currently in a state of divergence; going through the divorce process so they can legally separate.

Word: Divergent
Meaning: different from each other or growing further apart
Example: There were also divergent attitudes towards industrialization in China and Japan.

Word: Diverse
Meaning: composed of different people or features
Example: The restaurant has a diverse menu that includes entrees from all over the world.

Word: Diversify
Meaning: to make something less uniform by adding different things to it
Example: Many producers attempt to diversify their films by casting actors of many different nationalities in them.

Word: Diversion
Meaning: a distraction or turning from another activity
Example: Soldiers often use a diversion tactic; like a small attack away from their target; to sneak up on the enemy.

Word: Diversity
Meaning: an assortment of different types
Example: As a teacher; Bridgett has to deal with a large amount of diversity in her inner city classroom.

Word: Divert
Meaning: to shift from one thing or another or to distract someone
Example: I decided to divert the conversation away from the topic of politics.

Word: Divest
Meaning: to deprive of or strip away
Example: Divest yourself from the company of evil men or you will learn to mimic their ways.

Word: Divide
Meaning: to split or separate something into two or more parts or groups
Example: I am in love with books and have to divide my day into house chores; time to write and time to read.

Word: Dowdy
Meaning: unstylish; especially in reference to apparel
Example: The clothes I was wearing were apparently too dowdy for the popular kids to acknowledge them; but I really didn’t care for their sense of style.

Word: Downcast
Meaning: feeling sad; depressed; or despondent
Example: My daughter was extremely downcast when she couldn’t get ice cream; but I promised her we would go to the park later.

Word: Downfall
Meaning: a loss of power or prestige
Example: The downfall of the Soviet Union was likely due to the unhappiness that they brewed in the hearts of their own people.

Word: Downgrade
Meaning: to reduce in rank or importance
Example: After many years alone; the aging single was forced to downgrade her expectations.

Word: Downgrading
Meaning: reducing something to a lower rank; level; or grade
Example: Since he no longer needs the program for school; the student is thinking of downgrading his account to the free version.

Word: Downhill
Meaning: toward the bottom of something
Example: The ball rolled downhill from the top of the slope to the bottom of the mound.

Word: Downpour
Meaning: sudden; heavy rainfall
Example: Because her windshield wipers were broken; Beth had to pull over until the downpour stopped.

Word: Downright
Meaning: complete or total
Example: There has been so much downright terrible things happening in the world lately that some people are afraid to even leave their homes.

Word: Downsize
Meaning: to make something smaller or lessen
Example: When we downsize into a smaller house this fall; we will have to get rid of a lot of our extra furniture.

Word: Downtrodden
Meaning: oppressed; exploited.
Example: Hanging his head low; the downtrodden slave felt as if his life was without meaning.

Word: Downturn
Meaning: a decline in business or the economy
Example: A downturn in the real estate market made it really difficult for realtors to sell houses.

Word: Dowry
Meaning: property or payment given at time of marriage
Example: Part of her dowry included land that her father would give her husband.

Word: Doxology
Meaning: a Christian hymn or verse
Example: The doxology at the end of the Catholic prayer was chanted by the patrons.

Word: Doyen
Meaning: a man who serves as an expert as the senior member of a group
Example: The doyen of the group joined the Boy Scouts of America before any of the other members.

Word: Doze
Meaning: to nap lightly
Example: The wife always joked that her deep-sleeping husband could doze in the middle of a hurricane.

Word: Dozen
Meaning: a quantity of twelve
Example: A dozen donuts were served to the twelve breakfast guests.

Word: Drab
Meaning: dull; lacking brightness or enthusiasm
Example: Somber and drab; the gloomy hospital room made the depressed patient even sadder.

Word: Draconian
Meaning: harsh and cruel
Example: Giving someone a life sentence for stealing a loaf of bread is a draconian consequence.

Word: Draft
Meaning: a first version of something written or drawn
Example: Before I submit my final article; I need to edit my draft.

Word: Drag
Meaning: to pull someone or something often roughly and through or across an area
Example: The soccer players drag the heavy duffle bags into the locker room.

Word: Dragnet
Meaning: a police set-up put in place to catch a criminal
Example: Concealing his badge; the officer prepared the dragnet for the citywide drug sting.

Word: Dragoon
Meaning: a British soldier mounted on horseback
Example: Training of the British dragoon included lessons in horse-riding as well as fighting while mounted.

Word: Drastic
Meaning: extreme or severe
Example: She was so brokenhearted after the breakup that she considered taking drastic measures to win him back.

Word: Drat
Meaning: an expression used when one wants to express irritation or annoyance
Example: “Oh; drat!” Harriet exclaimed when she realized she had left her wallet at home.

Word: Draught
Meaning: a current of air
Example: Since Billy didn’t shut the glass door completely; his mom could feel a small draught.

Word: Drawback
Meaning: a disadvantage or downside
Example: The cruise to the Bahamas offered many perks; but the overall price was still a drawback.

Word: Drawl
Meaning: a type of accent branded by slow and drawn out speaking that is usually related to the southern United States
Example: The old banjo player’s songs seemed to go on and on as he picked and sang along in a Southern drawl.

Word: Drawn
Meaning: showing wear from being overworked or not cared for
Example: The student’s once healthy face looked drawn after several late-night study sessions.

Word: Dread
Meaning: a feeling of intense fear and anxiety
Example: The extremely shy speaker was filled with dread as she stepped in front of the microphone.

Word: Dreadful
Meaning: extremely terrible or awful
Example: The dreadful heat beat down on the farmhands; making their day’s work even more grueling.

Word: Dreamt
Meaning: imagined or fantasized about something or someone
Example: The love-sick man dreamt about the day he would finally marry his true love.

Word: Dreary
Meaning: cheerless; bleak; and dull
Example: The rainy weather was putting me in a dreary mood.

Word: Dreck
Meaning: flimsy or cheaply made
Example: Bargain hunters are always looking for products that are low in price but not dreck or of low quality.

Word: Dredge
Meaning: a huge; power shovel used to remove dirt and other debris from a channel or riverbed
Example: The workers used the dredge to remove sediment from the shallow sea.

Word: Dregs
Meaning: the least wanted parts or persons
Example: People who think homeless people are the dregs of society do not realize they could be down-and-out too.

Word: Drench
Meaning: to cover abundantly
Example: Everyone gasped as my little sister used ketchup to drench every piece of food on her plate.

Word: Drift off
Meaning: to fall asleep slowly
Example: I had just started to drift off to sleep when I heard the doorbell.

Word: Dungeon
Meaning: an underground prison; usually of a castle
Example: The king’s dank and chilly dungeon kept the most notorious offenders in the city.

Word: Dunnage
Meaning: a person's belongings; especially those brought on board ship
Example: Loading the dunnage on the ship was a tough job since the passenger had packed for a three month stay.

Word: Duo
Meaning: a pair or couple; usually associated with one another
Example: Minnie and Mickey Mouse are the most famous duo in Disney history.

Word: Dupe
Meaning: to deliberately mislead someone or the person who is easily used or tricked
Example: My brother is a schemer who is always trying to dupe people out of their money.

Word: Duplex
Meaning: a house divided into two separate apartments
Example: Both sides of the duplex are currently being rented.

Word: Duplicate
Meaning: an exact copy of an original
Example: The man’s duplicate license replaced the original that he lost.

Word: Duplicity
Meaning: dishonest behavior that is intended to trick someone
Example: Most politicians use duplicity to deceive voters just long enough to get their votes.

Word: Durable
Meaning: able to stay in good condition; withstand wear and damage; strong
Example: The plate was made of durable plastic and didn’t break when accidentally dropped.

Word: Duration
Meaning: the time period in which something occurs
Example: The total duration of the film is 180 minutes.

Word: Duress
Meaning: force or threats meant to make someone do something
Example: The judge overturned the case because the defendant’s attorney proved that his client’s confession had been given under duress.

Word: Dusk
Meaning: the darkest part of the evening
Example: The boy’s mother warned him that he must be back inside before the streetlights came on at dusk.

Word: Dutiful
Meaning: responsible; devoted
Example: A dutiful daughter will care for her parents in times of difficulty.

Word: Dutifully
Meaning: performing responsibilities as expected
Example: The Navy Seaman dutifully painted the ship gray as required by the military.

Word: Duty
Meaning: a responsibility or obligation
Example: As an American; it is your duty to vote on Election Day.

Word: Dwarf
Meaning: a mythical creature that is short in stature
Example: Without a step stool; it was difficult for the dwarf to get anything done around the cabin.

Word: Dwell
Meaning: to live in a specific place
Example: The migrant worker did not intend to dwell in the rural town for very long.

Word: Dweller
Meaning: a person who lives in a particular place
Example: The apartment manager offered the dweller a month of rent free living in exchange of a new lease signing.

Word: Dwelling
Meaning: a place where people live
Example: An adobe dwelling was made from dirt and other organic materials.

Word: Edema
Meaning: an increase in the size of an area of a person’s body due to excess fluid
Example: Once the pain was too much to bear due to Kevin’s edema; he was admitted to the hospital to drain the water pooling under his skin.

Word: Edge
Meaning: the rim or border of a place or thing
Example: As the hikers reached the edge of the forest; they realized they would be walking across a large field next.

Word: Edgy
Meaning: jumpy and tense
Example: After the plane continued to shake uncontrollably; the passengers began to get edgy for fear of the plane crashing.

Word: Edible
Meaning: that can be eaten without harm; eatable
Example: Mom’s dinner was barely edible so I ordered takeout instead.

Word: Edict
Meaning: an order made by a person or body of authority
Example: The principal’s edict prohibits female students from wearing skirts and dresses that do not cover their knees.

Word: Edification
Meaning: moral; intellectual; or spiritual improvement; through encouragement and instruction
Example: Professor Tom likes to have his students fill out this questionnaire for his own edification as to whether he is omitting anything they’re interested in studying.

Word: Edifice 
Meaning: an imposing building that is rather large
Example: As I stared at the gigantic edifice; I knew I would get lost once I entered the largest mall in the country.

Word: Edify
Meaning: to teach in a way that improves the mind or character
Example: As good Christians; we must seek to edify our neighbors about God and Jesus Christ.

Word: Elegy
Meaning: a poem or song displaying grief or mourning
Example: Since I am not an animal lover; I could only sigh as Ann sang an elegy for her dead cat.

Word: Element
Meaning: a specific portion of something 
Example: The detective needed to find the final element of the puzzle in order to identify the killer.

Word: Elemental
Meaning: fundamental; essential
Example: An elemental requirement for the program is a 3.0 GPA.

Word: Elementary
Meaning: pertaining to the basic or fundamental part of a topic
Example: Once the child graduated from his elementary school; he would have to go through middle and high school.

Word: Elephantine
Meaning: resembling an elephant
Example: She adds elephantine memory; social charm; and striking vitality to the marketing business.

Word: Elevate
Meaning: to increase in distance 
Example: “Elevate your legs so the blood won’t flow as fast to your injured foot;” the coach yelled to his injured player.

Word: Elevation
Meaning: the altitude between two points
Example: Ms. Smith worried that the low elevation of the city would cause the forecasted rainstorms to flood the land.

Word: Elevator
Meaning: a device used for raising and lowering people in multi-floor buildings
Example: She rode the elevator to the second floor of the apartment building which is where she lives.

Word: Elfin
Meaning: waiflike or fragile
Example: Due to her elfin frame; many soccer players were afraid that their teammate would get injured easily if their opponent ran into her.

Word: Elicit
Meaning: to draw out or bring forth
Example: The comedian hoped his jokes would elicit a great deal of laughter from the audience.

Word: Elide
Meaning: to leave out or omit
Example: The teacher decided to elide the last test since most of the students failed.

Word: Eligible
Meaning: the ability or qualifications to meet or fulfill a stipulation
Example: Mary was eligible for rehire with the Thompson Paper Company because she was simply laid off from her secretarial position the year before.

Word: Eliminate
Meaning: to totally do away with something
Example: Diet pill advertisements claim that they can eliminate belly fat by taking just a few pills a day.

Word: Elimination
Meaning: the complete destruction or annihilation of something
Example: Because our enemy does not take prisoners; we will face total elimination if we even think of surrendering to them.

Word: Elision
Meaning: omitting sounds in order to make something to easier to pronounce
Example: Elision occurs in Latin poetry as a stylistic device where phrases are omitted.

Word: Elite
Meaning: individuals who are viewed as the finest in a group or society
Example: Because Anna is quite wealthy; she sends her children to the area’s most elite school.

Word: Elitism
Meaning: the belief that one's social group is superior to others
Example: Spreading their elitism across Germany; the Nazis pushed to prove they were superior to all other races.

Word: Elixir
Meaning: a substance or liquid which is believed to cure illness and give eternal life
Example: The salesman was selling an elixir that he said would protect us all from the plague.

Word: Elliptical
Meaning: oval or egg-shaped
Example: I painted the elliptical shaped Easter egg with pastel colors.

Word: Elocution
Meaning: the way in which an individual reads or speaks in front of others
Example: During the play; the actor’s elocution was so magnificent the audience grew bored whenever he was not on stage.

Word: Elongate
Meaning: to make something longer
Example: In an attempt to elongate her body; the dancer stood on her tiptoes and stretched her arms up to the sky.

Word: Elope
Meaning: to run away in order to get married
Example: The couple’s dream was to elope in a Vegas wedding with Elvis leading their ceremony.

Word: Eloquent
Meaning: having or showing the ability to use language clearly and effectively
Example: When you listen to the eloquent politician speak; you always understand his message.

Word: Elsewhere
Meaning: referring to some other place
Example: Since we couldn’t find any of the supplies at the grocery store; we decided to look elsewhere.

Word: Elucidate
Meaning: to make clear or easy to understand
Example: To make life easy for my math students; I go out of my way to elucidate the complex problems before each test.

Word: Elude
Meaning: to avoid something or someone
Example: The criminal was able to elude the police in the crowded mall.

Word: Elusive
Meaning: difficult to find; catch; or achieve
Example: The police are finding it difficult to catch the elusive bank robber.

Word: Elysian
Meaning: heavenly; divine
Example: Ancient Greeks prepared to leave their earthly home and rest in Elysian Fields during the afterlife.

Word: Emaciated
Meaning: abnormally thin or weak; especially because of illness or a lack of food
Example: Because some sick animals refuse to eat; many of them become emaciated.

Word: Emacity
Meaning: the compulsive love for and desire to obtain; purchase; or spend money on items
Example: For Claudia; her emacity was an addiction that forced her to buy hundreds of dollars worth of items she did not need.

Word: Emanate
Meaning: to come out from a source
Example: Hopefully; the fun memories of the weekend will emanate throughout the office and give all the employees a positive outlook this week.

Word: Emanating
Meaning: coming from
Example: The smoke emanating from the stove was a clear sign something was burning.

Word: Emanation
Meaning: a particular thing that is released from a certain source
Example: An emanation will rise through the opening once the humidifier has been running for a while.

Word: Emancipate
Meaning: to give freedom to someone
Example: As my father walked me down the aisle; he told me he was happy to emancipate me so I could live my own life.

Word: Emancipation
Meaning: the act or process of freeing someone legally or socially
Example: Many slaves became sharecroppers and never left the plantation after emancipation.

Word: Emasculate
Meaning: emasculate means to lessen a man’s identity
Example: He was worried his pink pants would emasculate him a bit; but he wore them anyway.

Word: Embalm
Meaning: to protect a dead body from rot by inserting it with a chemical compound
Example: In ancient Egypt; people would embalm the bodies of famous leaders by removing the organs and fluids before wrapping it in cloth.

Word: Embankment
Meaning: a wall made of dirt or stone that is used to prevent a river from flooding
Example: Sitting on the grassy embankment; the fisherman prepared to throw his line into the river.

Word: Embargo 
Meaning: a government ban on trade with a specific country
Example: The United State’s embargo against trade with North Korea has created tension between the two countries.

Word: Embark
Meaning: to begin anew
Example: Tomorrow Grant will start college and embark upon a new phase in his life.

Word: Embarrass
Meaning: to make someone look shameful or foolish in public
Example: My mother likes to embarrass me by showing everyone my baby pictures.

Word: Embarrassment
Meaning: the state of feeling shame or discomfort with one’s self
Example: With the woman’s sex tape being released this morning; there was no way to avoid public embarrassment.

Word: Embedded
Meaning: an object deeply implanted; enclosed; or ingrained within something
Example: After the wind storm; many pieces of wood embedded themselves in the siding on my house.

Word: Embellish
Meaning: to make something sound or look better or more acceptable than it is in reality;to make more beautiful and attractive; to decorate
Example: Because Marco has always had a tendency to embellish the truth; no one believed he had been mugged.

Word: Ember
Meaning: a glowing piece of coal or wood
Example: The fire was blamed on an ember from the camp fire that had not been fully extinguished.

Word: Embezzle
Meaning: to take property or funds one has been entrusted to keep
Example: The teller will be prosecuted if she helped the loan officer embezzle bank funds.

Word: Emblazon
Meaning: to decorate something with a noticeable design or symbol
Example: My crafty sister-in-law was able to emblazon my t-shirt with a glittery monogram.

Word: Emblem
Meaning: a representative symbol; such as a trademark or logo
Example: The show requires everyone to wear a shirt that sports the emblem of their company so that people can network more effectively.

Word: Emblematic
Meaning: serving as a symbol
Example: The American flag is emblematic of freedom.

Word: Embodiment
Meaning: an individual or thing that serves as a role model
Example: My lecturer holds several advanced degrees and is the embodiment of the ideal scholar.

Word: Embody
Meaning: to stand as a symbol for something
Example: The national flag is supposed to embody the spirit of our country.

Word: Embolden
Meaning: to motivate or inspire
Example: Do you believe alcohol commercials embolden teens to drink?

Word: Embossed
Meaning: to carve; mold; or stamp a design into something
Example: The graffiti artists embossed their signature designs onto the side of the building.

Word: Embrace
Meaning: to clasp someone or each other with affection; hug 
Example: I have come to appreciate warm people who embrace me just because they're happy to see me.

Word: Embrace
Meaning: to hold someone closely in your arms
Example: Running into each other’s arms; the couple began to embrace each other tightly.

Word: Embrace
Meaning: to accept the idea or reality of something
Example: Harold tried to embrace the idea that his wife wanted a divorce; but he still had a hard time accepting it.

Word: Embroider
Meaning: to decorate cloth by sewing patterns on with thread
Example: I had my mother embroider my initials on my jacket so none of the other kids would take it home.

Word: Embroidery
Meaning: needlework
Example: Doing extra embroidery work on the side; the talented seamstress enjoyed doing needlework.

Word: Embroiled
Meaning: pulled into a situation
Example: I avoided my two best friends because I did not want to get embroiled in their dispute.

Word: Embryo
Meaning: an organism in the earlier stages of development before it emerges from the egg; or before metamorphosis
Example: Before I was a baby; I was an embryo.

Word: Embryonic
Meaning: referring to a system or idea that has potential for significant development
Example: Our company is still in its embryonic stage; having just started and having a lot of room to grow and expand.

Word: Emendation
Meaning: the action of fixing written errors
Example: Fortunately; John’s first draft of his paper required only a single emendation before it could be submitted for a grade.

Word: Emerge
Meaning: to come forward or appear
Example: Who will emerge victorious at the end of the boxing match?

Word: Emergency
Meaning: a situation which poses an immediate risk and requires urgent attention 
Example: The family gathered into the hospital’s waiting room when my grandfather needed an emergency surgery to remove a blood clot from his brain.

Word: Emergent
Meaning: in the process of emerging; of coming into being or prominence
Example: The emergent young singer may not be famous yet; but his great talent points to a future in show business.

Word: Emeritus
Meaning: retaining a title of honor after retirement
Example: Barack Obama is the emeritus President of the United States.

Word: Emesis
Meaning: throwing up; barfing
Example: Because some patients experience emesis after surgery there are always basins in the recovery area.

Word: Emigrant
Meaning: a person who leaves their home country to live permanently in a new country
Example: Marco is an emigrant from Cuba; which is immediately obvious from his accent.

Word: Emigrate
Meaning: to move from an individual’s home country to another country
Example: Many Mexicans illegally emigrate into the U.S. from Mexico.

Word: Emigration
Meaning: the act of relocating to another region or nation
Example: Because of the high rate of emigration; our country’s population is decreasing.

Word: Eminence
Meaning: having a superior or famed ability at a specific activity
Example: Taylor Swift’s eminence as a creative singer and style icon make her one of the most well known celebrities in the world.

Word: Eminent
Meaning: remarkable; great
Example: Everyone was looking forward to taking the class with such an eminent professor.

Word: Emissary
Meaning: an individual who acts on behalf of another person
Example: The celebrity sent his assistant as an emissary to pick up the movie contract.

Word: Emission
Meaning: the act of releasing or sending out something
Example: The mechanic is checking the engine to identify the source of the emission coming from my car.

Word: Emit 
Meaning: to give off or send forth
Example: Since the x-ray machines emit radiation; the technician will give you a protective cover to use during the diagnostic procedures.

Word: Emollient
Meaning: something which softens or lubricates the skin
Example: The lotion was a great emollient for her dry skin.

Word: Emolument
Meaning: compensation for work completed
Example: The emolument I earn from working is not enough to pay my bills.

Word: Emotion
Meaning: an instinctive or intuitive feeling; as opposed to logic and rationale
Example: Happiness is an emotion that we all wish to experience throughout our lifetime in spades; but unfortunately we must all endure tough times.

Word: Emotional
Meaning: of or relating to the emotions
Example: After more information unfolded; it appears the woman in question has severe emotional issues that should be dealt with.

Word: Emotional
Meaning: connected with or showing feelings
Example: The woman and man had an emotional connection and expressed their feelings for each other over the phone.

Word: Emotive
Meaning: emotional
Example: I didn’t expect such an emotive response from the parent when I said that her son was not a nice child.

Word: Empathize
Meaning: to feel empathy for another person
Example: His ability to empathize with people made him an excellent marriage counselor.

Word: Empathy
Meaning: to understand and share the feelings of another
Example: Because her parents immigrated to the United States to give her a better life; Maria has empathy for illegal aliens.

Word: Emperor
Meaning: the male supreme ruler of a kingdom or empire
Example: Looking down from his throne; the emperor ordered all of the thieves to be banished from his kingdom.

Word: Emphasis
Meaning: special importance or prominence on a particular thing
Example: The teacher put special emphasis on the fact that the assignment was not due tomorrow; but the day after it; to make sure we wouldn’t forget.

Word: Emphasize
Meaning: to highlight or focus on
Example: You should use the blue eye shadow to emphasize your beautiful eyes.

Word: Emphatically
Meaning: firmly
Example: When my husband and I married; we agreed emphatically to stay together forever.

Word: Empire 
Meaning: a state or area ruled by one individual who is normally referred to as an emperor
Example: The emperor governed his empire without asking anyone for advice.

Word: Empirical
Meaning: based on observation or evidence
Example: Our data is based on empirical evidence collected in numerous studies.

Word: Empiricism
Meaning: pursuit of knowledge purely through experience and experiments
Example: The expert’s sense of empiricism stemmed from years of personal experience.

Word: Employ
Meaning: to make use of something or hire somebody to work
Example: The boutique was looking to employ fashion designers.

Word: Employment
Meaning: the state of having a job or paid work
Example: I have applied for several different jobs; but am yet to find full-time employment.

Word: Empower 
Meaning: to grant authority or power to act in a certain way
Example: A good manager never fails to empower his employees with the ability to meet the needs of the customer.

Word: Empowered
Meaning: acting with confidence
Example: After being praised to the sky; Jack felt empowered and was ready to tackle the job.

Word: Empowerment
Meaning: power or authority given to someone
Example: The women’s empowerment movement was all about helping women take control of their own lives.

Word: Emptiness
Meaning: the state of containing nothing
Example: After all of her children left home; the mother felt a sense of emptiness in her lonely heart.

Word: Empty
Meaning: unable to satisfy; hollow; vain
Example: My neighbor’s apologies were empty gestures and nothing more.

Word: Emulate
Meaning: to imitate and copy; strive to equal or excel
Example: Aspiring to become a good cook; Kate will emulate the recipes and cooking techniques of chef Emeril.

Word: Emulation
Meaning: the desire to equal or excel someone else in qualities or actions
Example: Growing up; Rick was absorbed with sports emulation and he wanted to play for the Jets one day.

Word: Emulous
Meaning: full of jealousy that leads one to be eager to copy another
Example: The teen’s emulous personality led her to copy the other girl’s style instead of embracing her own sense of fashion.

Word: Enable
Meaning: to make something workable or possible
Example: Earning a college degree will enable Jake to get a job that pays a decent salary.

Word: Enact
Meaning: to authorize as a law or decree
Example: Congress hopes to enact a law that will increase the consequences of drunk driving.

Word: Enamor
Meaning: to trigger feelings of adoration
Example: My daughter hopes her makeover will enamor feelings from her secret crush.

Word: Enamored
Meaning: in love with a person or thing
Example: Because I was so enamored of my boyfriend; I had to see him constantly.

Word: Encampment
Meaning: temporary living quarters
Example: The Native American encampment was set up close to where the buffalo roamed; providing a temporary home for the hunters following the herd.

Word: Encapsulate
Meaning: to concisely express the main point of something 
Example: The students wished there was a way to encapsulate their teacher’s lecture so class would end quicker.

Word: Encase
Meaning: to cover something in a case or close-fitting surroundings
Example: The foil was used to completely encase the meat before it was put in a pan and placed in the oven.

Word: Enchant
Meaning: to charm or captivate
Example: When the magician finished his act; he did enchant the audience with his unbelievable magic tricks.

Word: Enchanted
Meaning: charmed; delighted; enraptured
Example: After the performance ended; we sat glued in our seats; enchanted by what we just saw.

Word: Encircle
Meaning: encase or enclose around
Example: Police can’t determine what is happening on the sidewalk since the people tightly encircle the pair of fighters in the center.

Word: Enclave
Meaning: a faction of individuals who differ from the people who live in neighboring areas
Example: The residents of the wealthy enclave don’t want the public bus system in their neighborhood.

Word: Enclose
Meaning: to completely cover or close something off from outside sources
Example: Ancient Egyptians liked to enclose their dead in elaborate tombs.

Word: Enclosure
Meaning: an area that is surrounded by a fence; wall; etc
Example: The enclosure was filled with cows grazing in the field.

Word: Encomium
Meaning: speech or piece of writing that warmly praises someone or something; tribute
Example: Mrs. Poundstone was surprised and delighted on the last day of school when the students in her most difficult class presented her with an encomium they had written; praising her work as a teacher.

Word: Encompass 
Meaning: to include or contain 
Example: The coding conference will encompass seminars on the most popular programming languages today.

Word: Encore
Meaning: a brief extra performance; done after the main performance is complete 
Example: After the first encore ; the crowd made it obviously clear they wanted more.

Word: Encounter
Meaning: to come across something or someone without warning
Example: I never dreamed I would encounter a rattlesnake in my backyard.

Word: Encourage
Meaning: to give support and hope to someone in an effort to build their confidence
Example: Trying to encourage his troops to press on; the leader gave a moving speech to the discouraged men.

Word: Encouragement
Meaning: words or actions that offer support or confidence to another person
Example: Offering encouragement to her son; Rhonda tried to convince Eli to try out for the basketball team once again.

Word: Encroach
Meaning: to slowly move into another person’s area
Example: My coworker is always leaning on my desk and trying to encroach upon my personal space.

Word: Encumber
Meaning: to restrict or burden in such a way that action is limited
Example: The chaperon’s rules did not encumber the female members of the swim team from sneaking out of their hotel at night.

Word: Encumbrance
Meaning: burden or hindrance
Example: If it weren’t for the encumbrance of procrastination; I would be a productivity machine!

Word: Endangered
Meaning: at serious risk of dying out/becoming extinct
Example: The Dodo bird is now extinct since no one was able to mate them when they were endangered.

Word: Endear
Meaning: to bring about love or fondness 
Example: Your rude behavior didn't endear you to the judges.

Word: Endearment 
Meaning: actions or words that convey affection
Example: When Matt told Jill he loved her; he hoped she would respond with some type of endearment.

Word: Endeavor
Meaning: 
Example: Although soliciting donations to help rebuild the orphanage took a lot of time and energy; in the end everyone agreed it had been a very worthwhile endeavor.

Word: Endemic
Meaning: native to a specific area or group of individuals
Example: The poisonous snake must have come from another country because it is not endemic to our nation.

Word: Endogenous
Meaning: growing or forming on the inside
Example: Because they are endogenous; the plants roots grow from deep within the plant tissue.

Word: Endorse
Meaning: to express one’s support or approval
Example: If the president chooses to endorse the politician; he will lose many supporters who oppose the legislator.

Word: Endothermic
Meaning: a reaction that causes warmth to be taken in
Example: Due to the endothermic process of cooking; an egg is cooked and becomes hot by the use of a stove.

Word: Endow
Meaning: to bestow something in a natural way or to give funds that are needed to support a project
Example: The billionaire will endow the school of nursing with a huge donation.

Word: Endowed
Meaning: supplied or furnished with 
Example: Since we’ve been heavily endowed by investors this year; we have greatly exceeded our fundraising goals.

Word: Endowment
Meaning: income or property that is given to someone
Example: In an effort to assist my son as he buys his first home; I provided him with a significant monetary endowment.

Word: Endurance
Meaning: the ability to do something difficult for a long time
Example: She admired her grandmother’s endurance throughout the grueling cancer treatments.

Word: Endure
Meaning: to put up with or go through
Example: A woman has to endure an extreme amount of pain during childbirth.

Word: Energetic
Meaning: active; having high levels of energy
Example: I stayed up late last night; so I had a hard time being active and energetic.

Word: Energy
Meaning: the power and ability to be physically and mentally active
Example: When people are under stress; they don't have as much energy for physical or mental activity.

Word: Enervate
Meaning: to deprive of force or strength; weaken
Example: The wrestler's plan was to deliver a crushing blow which would enervate his opponent.

Word: Enervated
Meaning: weakened; derived of strength
Example: Because he wasn’t in great physical shape; the runner felt enervated after a long-run.

Word: Enfeebled
Meaning: made physically or mentally weak or feeble
Example: After months in captivity; the enfeebled survivors were too weak to walk out of the camp.

Word: Enforce
Meaning: to compel or require
Example: Police officers will enforce the law by arresting people for committing crimes and handing out citations for breaking the rules.

Word: Enforcement
Meaning: the process of making sure that people follow a law/rule
Example: Enforcement of the park rules meant that people were not allowed in after dark.

Word: Enfranchise
Meaning: to extend privileges or rights
Example: One purpose of the immigration bill is to enfranchise citizenship to people who are willing to make a commitment to this country.

Word: Engage
Meaning: to become involved or participate in
Example: If you engage in criminal activity; you could end up in a jail cell.

Word: Engaging
Meaning: connecting; joining
Example: Engaging in a heated argument with her husband; the angry wife refused to back down.

Word: Engender
Meaning: to cause a feeling or attitude to exist
Example: The restaurant hoped the act of giving out free ice cream would engender customer loyalty.

Word: Engine
Meaning: something that is the force or impetus of a process
Example: The tank is our preferred engine of destruction when our country goes to war on the ground.

Word: Engross
Meaning: to completely capture attention or focus
Example: Hopefully the plastic keys will engross the crying baby for a while.

Word: Engulf
Meaning: to totally surround or cover
Example: The lava will begin to engulf the abandoned city in six hours.

Word: Engulf
Meaning: to sweep over something; surrounding it completely
Example: It only took seconds for the raging fire to fully engulf every room in the house.

Word: Enhance
Meaning: to bring out positive features
Example: The saleswoman told me the blue dress would enhance my lovely blue eyes.

Word: Enigma
Meaning: someone or something that is mysterious and difficult to understand
Example: To the new detective; the motive of the crime was an enigma.

Word: Enigmatic
Meaning: full of mystery and difficult to understand
Example: When I was growing up; I viewed my father as an enigmatic man who rarely spent time with me.

Word: Enjoin
Meaning: to prohibit someone from performing an action
Example: The angry man wanted the judge to grant an injunction to enjoin his ex-wife from selling their vacation home.

Word: Enjoyable
Meaning: entertaining; pleasurable
Example: Going to the beach is usually enjoyable; but today’s heat wave took away from the fun.

Word: Enjoyment
Meaning: a feeling of happiness or pleasure gained from an event or activity
Example: Enjoyment of an ice cream cone is one of my favorite summer activities.

Word: Enlarge
Meaning: to make something bigger than its original size
Example: The nearly blind woman needed someone to enlarge her text messages so that she could read them.

Word: Enlighten
Meaning: to give someone more knowledge or information about a situation
Example: The teacher’s job was to enlighten her students on the various theories of physical science.

Word: Enlightenment 
Meaning: the action of being informed
Example: My children often look to me for enlightenment when they have questions about important life decisions.

Word: Episode
Meaning: incident or action connected with a series of events
Example: One in three of us will experience a depressive episode at some time in our lives.

Word: Epistemic
Meaning: of or relating to knowledge or cognition; cognitive
Example: As human beings; it is very important to be aware of our epistemic limitations.

Word: Epistemology
Meaning: a division of philosophy that examines numerous aspects of human intelligence
Example: “What exactly is knowledge?” is a question you will ask when you study epistemology.

Word: Epistle
Meaning: a formal printed communication; a written note or letter
Example: The epistle from the court ordered me to appear as a possible juror.

Word: Epistolary
Meaning: associated with written correspondence
Example: Her epistolary collection of the secret romance contains all the letters the couple exchanged.

Word: Epitaph
Meaning: a brief literary piece written about the life of a dead person and often placed on that individual’s headstone
Example: The slave’s epitaph stated his name but made no mention of his date of birth or death.

Word: Epithet
Meaning: a word or phrase that describes a person or thing
Example: The epithet “Curly” is used to describe the big football player with the curly hair.

Word: Epitome
Meaning: an example that represents or expresses something very well
Example: Because our mayor is the epitome of a good citizen; he has been in office for over ten years.

Word: Epitomized
Meaning: used as a model of something
Example: Before his career-ending injury; Dwayne epitomized the world’s idea of the best basketball player on the planet.

Word: Epoch
Meaning: a significant period in time
Example: Many people consider the development of the first antibiotic to be the epoch of man’s therapeutic advances.

Word: Epochal
Meaning: of great significance
Example: The president returned the country to prosperity during his epochal terms in office.

Word: Eponym
Meaning: a term derived from an individual or thing related to it or to the person who created a specific thing
Example: The word “sandwich” is an eponym linked to the first person said to have requested the item; the Earl of Sandwich.

Word: Eponymous
Meaning: a title or name that is derived from another name
Example: The singer’s first album was eponymous and carried her name as the record title.

Word: Equable
Meaning: even-tempered; calm
Example: Because she is so equable; my even-tempered mother rarely gets upset.

Word: Equal
Meaning: being the same in size; amount; or degree
Example: You should add an equal amount of water and paint to the bowl get the right mixture.

Word: Equality
Meaning: the quality of having the same value or worth
Example: The civil rights activist fought for racially equality so all people would be viewed as equals.

Word: Equanimity
Meaning: to stay calm; especially under stress; to maintain composure
Example: His equanimity allowed him to keep a clear head and escape the burning building.

Word: Equate
Meaning: to view as being equal in value 
Example: I was angry when I learned the insurance check wouldn’t equate to the painting’s purchase price.

Word: Equation
Meaning: a mathematical problem that says that two things are equal
Example: Although he knew how to divide; the confused student could not figure out the numbers to plug into the equation.

Word: Equator
Meaning: an imaginary circle around the Earth; dividing earth's surface into the northern and southern hemisphere
Example: Even though it is invisible; I am well aware of the equator due to its high suffocating temperatures.

Word: Equestrian
Meaning: associated with horse riding
Example: During the equestrian auction; you’ll have the opportunity to bid on some of the finest horses in the country.

Word: Equidistant
Meaning: located the same distance from two or more areas 
Example: My hotel room is located equidistant from both elevators so neither elevator is more convenient than the other.

Word: Equilateral
Meaning: referring to a polygon all of whose sides are of equal length
Example: The equilateral picture frame allowed for a four by four inched photograph.

Word: Equilibrium
Meaning: the condition at which competing influences are balanced
Example: Equilibrium is the point at which supply and demand are in balance with enough of a good being produced to meet the requests for it.

Word: Equine
Meaning: similar in appearance to or associated with a horse
Example: In high school; people used to bully Gail by calling her “Horsey” because of her equine face.

Word: Equinox
Meaning: the two days of March and September in which the hours of the day and night are nearly the same length 
Example: In the United States; we are always eager for the March equinox to cast out the winter weather.

Word: Equip
Meaning: to supply someone or something with the necessary items for a specific purpose
Example: If you plan on rock climbing; you should probably equip yourself with a harness and the other safety gear needed to stay safe.

Word: Equipoise
Meaning: a state of balance; equilibrium
Example: As she stacked the cans into a pyramid; the stocker was precise in order to ensure equipoise and stop the cans from crashing down.

Word: Equipped
Meaning: coming with additional items that allow ultimate functionability
Example: The campsite came equipped with a stone fire pit; charcoal grill; and water fountain.

Word: Equitable
Meaning: characterized by equity or fairness; just and right; fair
Example: Both sides agreed to try to find an equitable compromise that would please everyone.

Word:  Equity 
Meaning: the calculated worth of a property after the money owed has been deducted
Example: We do not have enough equity in our home to use it as collateral for a loan.

Word: Equivalent
Meaning: on par or equal to
Example: Carl is a cocky home cook who swears his hamburger is equivalent to a steak at a fine restaurant.

Word: Equivocal
Meaning: not clear or certain
Example: Since the defendant’s alibi is equivocal; the jury will disregard it almost instantly.

Word: Equivocate
Meaning: to use unclear language especially to deceive or mislead someone
Example: When things are not going Margie’s way; she will often twist the truth and equivocate to put things in her favor.

Word: Era
Meaning: a period of time of which particular events or stages in history
Example: The fall of the Berlin wall marked the end of an era.

Word: Eradicate
Meaning: to completely destroy; to put an end to
Example: The murderer conceived a sinister plot to systematically eradicate the any witnesses to his foul deed.

Word: Ere
Meaning: previously or earlier usually meaning with time
Example: The southern belle hoped Jeff would ask for her hand in marriage ere nightfall so that she could go to bed early that night.

Word: Ergo
Meaning: consequently or therefore
Example: I am allergic to shellfish; ergo; I will not be trying Pam’s shrimp pasta dish.

Word: Eristic
Meaning: describing a person likely to debate or argue with others
Example: My Dad is a very eristic person; always turning any conversation we have into a full blown debate for no reason.

Word: Erode
Meaning: to destroy something at a leisurely pace
Example: People predicted the Internet would erode the future of newspapers; and for the most part; they were correct.

Word: Erosion
Meaning: the slow demolition of something 
Example: The overconsumption of soft drinks can produce dental erosion.

Word: Err
Meaning: to make an error or mistake
Example: When I err; I try to learn from my mistakes.

Word: Errant
Meaning: not following the appropriate course
Example: The errant student was given a warning for not going directly to class.

Word: Erratic
Meaning: unpredictable
Example: The medicine causes the normally predictable Jacob to behave in an erratic way.

Word: Erratum
Meaning: an error in text that is later corrected 
Example: An erratum at the bottom of the article contains a correction for a spelling error.

Word: Erroneous
Meaning: wrong; incorrect
Example: After he had spent every waking moment of the past few days researching the subject; he was understandably frustrated when he discovered that several of his sources contained erroneous information.

Word: Error
Meaning: a mistake or blunder
Example: When the mother accused her son of stealing her money; it was an error on the mother’s part because the daughter actually stole the money.

Word: Ersatz
Meaning: replicated from something else yet lacking the original qualities
Example: Do you believe the ersatz beach created by the city will appeal to those who love the natural features of the seashore?

Word: Erstwhile
Meaning: in the past
Example: Before she began using a pseudonym; the author was erstwhile known by another name.

Word: Erudite
Meaning: having or showing profound knowledge
Example: The room was full of erudite scholars who made the discussion on astronomy fun and interesting.

Word: Erudition
Meaning: extensive knowledge learned from studying and research
Example: Ken Jennings is a man of great erudition; having won first place on Jeopardy 75 consecutive times.

Word: Erupt
Meaning: to violently eject
Example: Fearing that the volcano would erupt momentarily; the local authorities issued an immediate evacuation notice.

Word: Erupted
Meaning: simple past tense and past participle of erupt; to violently eject or explode
Example: After he said the words “not guilty;” the audience erupted.

Word: Eruption
Meaning: the bursting out of material suddenly and violently
Example: The volcano’s sudden eruption left the city in ruins; covered in lava and ash.

Word: Escalade
Meaning: the act of climbing or scaling defensive walls with the aid of ladders
Example: Even the strongest men were unable to escalade the tower of the north castle.

Word: Escalate 
Meaning: to make stronger or intensify
Example: Gas prices usually escalate during the summer because of the high demand for fuel.

Word: Escapade
Meaning: a risk-taking act that goes against normal behavior
Example: The boys’ escapade might end with their arrest.

Word: Escapism
Meaning: avoidance of the real world and finding comfort in daydreams and fantasy
Example: Escapism was his favorite pastime; preferring to immerse himself in video games over homework.

Word: Escarpment
Meaning: long; steep cliff
Example: Sledding down the steep escarpment proved to be a hair-raising event.

Word: Eschew
Meaning: to avoid something which you do not think is right or proper
Example: Since my husband believes chores are a woman’s work; he tries to eschew them around the house.

Word: Escort
Meaning: to go with someone or something as a companion or guard
Example: No women in the city are allowed to shop or be in public without a male family member to escort them.

Word: Escrow
Meaning: money or something of value held in trust by a third party for two other parties in a contract
Example: When my parents died; I inherited money that will be in escrow until I turn twenty-one years old.

Word: Esculent
Meaning: edible; good enough to eat
Example: Compared to the other mouthwatering apples; the one with the worm’s head poking out of it was not esculent.

Word: Escutcheon
Meaning: a shield displaying a coat of arms
Example: Shining brightly; the warrior’s shield-like escutcheon had protected him in many battles.

Word: Esophagus
Meaning: tube that carries food; liquids and saliva from your mouth to the stomach
Example: Forcing the sashimi down her esophagus; the finicky woman tried not to think about the fact that it was raw.

Word: Esoteric
Meaning: known about or understood by very few people
Example: The medical research was so esoteric that only a few physicians could actually understand the results.

Word: Especial
Meaning: exceptional
Example: With especial grades; the student knew she would get into the college of her choice.

Word: Espionage
Meaning: the obtaining of information considered secret or confidential without the permission of the holder of the information
Example: Digging through someone’s trash to get information is one of the oldest acts of espionage in the spy business.

Word: Espouse
Meaning: to support an idea; belief; or principle
Example: People who espouse the Paleo diet claim that they feel better and it’s much easier to control their weight.

Word: Espresso
Meaning: dark coffee brewed by forcing water through finely ground; roasted coffee beans
Example: A cup of expresso was just what the coffee junkie needed to get her day started.

Word: Esprit
Meaning: the quality of being lively and spirited
Example: Several of the esprit cheerleaders were able to liven the crowd even though the team was losing.

Word: Espy 
Meaning: to discover; to catch sight of
Example: Those who wanted to espy the incoming soldiers came out in droves.

Word: Essay
Meaning: a written composition of moderate length; exploring a particular issue or subject
Example: For a homework assignment; our teacher Mr. Jones wants the class to write an essay on endangered species.

Word: Essence
Meaning: the key element of something
Example: At the essence of the non-profit is the desire to improve the lives of homeless people.

Word: Essential
Meaning: absolutely necessary; extremely important 
Example: Air and water are essential for human life.

Word: Essentially
Meaning: basically; mostly
Example: Since the game is essentially over; we should go ahead and walk back to our cars.

Word: Establish
Meaning: to create or form
Example: The teacher must establish rules for the students to follow while they are in school.

Word: Established
Meaning: referring to something that has existed for a long time and is therefore recognized
Example: Italy has long been established as a country of good food; probably thanks to their donation of pizza and pasta to the world cuisine.

Word: Establishment
Meaning: the people with the most power within a government
Example: Because the establishment had all of the power; it was hard for a peasant to rise above servitude.

Word: Estate
Meaning: all of the property owned by a person; typically at the time of their death
Example: My estate includes my house; my car; my dog; and all of my money; which will all go to my wife if I die.

Word: Esteem
Meaning: respect and admiration
Example: Having set the world record for fastest mile time; the man received the esteem of his fellow runners.

Word: Esteemed
Meaning: having the admiration of others
Example: We are honored to present this award to our esteemed colleague for his hard work and dedication.

Word: Estimable
Meaning: worthy of respect and praise
Example: Our estimable professor is constantly being recognized for his cancer research.

Word: Estimate
Meaning: to roughly calculate or give a guessed amount
Example: I always estimate the cost of my groceries while shopping so that I’m not surprised at the total amount.

Word: Exceeding
Meaning: more or greater than average
Example: Having exceeding expectations; the teacher required high quality work with no errors from all of his students.

Word: Exceedingly
Meaning: extremely; to a great extent
Example: As my debt rose and income increased; it seemed exceedingly difficult to survive month to month.

Word: Excel
Meaning: to do something extremely well
Example: I tend to excel in subjects that are heavy in mathematics; but struggle with courses that require a great deal of writing.

Word: Excellence
Meaning: the state of being extremely good
Example: Committed to excellence; our basketball team refused to give up when we were behind in the first round.

Word: Excellent
Meaning: wonderful and superb
Example: After studying a few hours for his math test; the boy was proud for making an excellent grade of an A+ on his test.

Word: Exception
Meaning: a case where a rule does not apply
Example: The only exception that will be made for students who come late to classes is if they had been sick the day before.

Word: Exceptionable
Meaning: objectionable or not acceptable
Example: The nursing home worker’s exceptionable treatment of the patient led to complaints and termination.

Word: Exceptional
Meaning: excellent or brilliant
Example: Tiffany had exceptional grades with straight A’s and they were all at one hundred percent.

Word: Excerpt
Meaning: a short piece or clip from a larger piece of media 
Example: Since we had only a few minutes left in class; our teacher could only read an excerpt of the short story to us.

Word: Excess
Meaning: surplus; extra
Example: Excess annual funds should be designated to the building fund so that we can make the needed roof repairs.

Word: Excessive
Meaning: more than needed
Example: Excessive spending by the state government drained our funds and left us with a huge deficit.

Word: Excessively
Meaning: something that is done in an extra amount or extent than what is expected
Example: Since the young child was always silenced at home; she talked excessively at school about anything she could think about.

Word: Exchange
Meaning: to trade or swap
Example: After the small fender bender; the two parties decided to exchange phone numbers and sort the issue out at a later date.

Word: Excise
Meaning: to get rid of something by cutting
Example: It will take several hours for the surgeon to excise the massive tumor.

Word: Excitable
Meaning: easily excited; emotional or temperamental
Example: It didn’t take much to get the excitable puppy riled up and a bark fest to being.

Word: Excite
Meaning: to stimulate and thrill
Example: Several half-court three point shots were able to excite the crowd and send them into a frenzy.

Word: Excitedly
Meaning: to be thrilled or interested
Example: The 16-year old boy said excitedly; “I can’t believe you got me a brand new car for my birthday!”

Word: Excitement
Meaning: full of delight
Example: Excitement on a child’s face when she comes downstairs on Christmas morning to see all her presents is priceless.

Word: Exciting
Meaning: thrilling and interesting
Example: When my wife announced we were having a baby; the exciting news made me go buy a house full of baby toys.

Word: Exclaim
Meaning: to speak spontaneously and with strong feeling
Example: If you listen on Christmas Day; you'll hear millions of small children exclaim in joy.

Word: Exclaimed
Meaning: expressed with strong feeling
Example: It was obvious from the way the children exclaimed delight that they liked their Christmas presents.

Word: Exclamation
Meaning: a sudden cry usually brought on by surprise; anger; or pain
Example: I let out an exclamation of anger when I realized my best friend had accidentally spilled paint on my drawing in art class.

Word: Exclude
Meaning: to eliminate or reject
Example: If an African American citizen tried to vote in the 1950s; the workers would exclude him based on his race.

Word: Exclusion
Meaning: the condition of denying access to something
Example: Due to his exclusion from the military; Darrel didn’t know what he was going to do in the future.

Word: Exclusive
Meaning: private; restricted
Example: Although the pool was exclusive to paid members; we usually were allowed to swim after hours.

Word: Excogitate
Meaning: to study something intently and carefully
Example: The attorney took several days to excogitate the case documents so that he would be prepared for court.

Word: Excommunicate
Meaning: to be banished from a church
Example: In history; officials have decided to excommunicate prominent religious leaders because of their wrongdoings.

Word: Excommunication
Meaning: officially excluding someone from participation in religious acts of the Christian Church
Example: The penalty for joining a secret group like the Freemasons was exile and excommunication from the church.

Word: Excoriate
Meaning: to severely condemn
Example: In his speech; the president will excoriate the dictator’s actions and state his plans for military intervention.

Word: Excrement
Meaning: feces expelled through the body after digestion
Example: Cleaning up the patient’s excrement out of the bedpan was not the highlight of the nurse’s day.

Word: Excrescence
Meaning: a protrusion or growth usually in the form of a lump that is the result of sickness
Example: After discovering a large excrescence that resembled a bubble on his leg; Miles went to the doctor to have it looked it.

Word: Excretion
Meaning: the process of expelling waste from the body
Example: Taking part in the excretion process; several organs are responsible for removing waste for the body.

Word: Excruciating
Meaning: extremely uncomfortable or painful
Example: After watching the excruciating film; I thought about asking for a refund of my money.

Word: Exculpate
Meaning: to clear of or free from guilt; exonerate
Example: Diane’s teenage son is constantly getting into some kind of mischief; but he knows how to charm his mother and exculpate himself.

Word: Exculpatory
Meaning: describes something that shows or declares that (someone) is not guilty of wrongdoing
Example: Despite its exculpatory tone; those conducting the investigation know in their hearts that the president is guilty of perjury.

Word: Excursion
Meaning: a fun outing or visit
Example: On our excursion to see our grandparents in Colorado; we ran into a snowstorm which delayed our trip.

Word: Excuse
Meaning: the justification for an error; mistake or absence
Example: Her only excuse for stealing the bread was that her young brothers would starve to death if they weren’t fed.

Word: Execrable
Meaning: extremely bad or unpleasant
Example: When Matt accidentally found himself on a racist website; he was outraged by all the execrable comments that had been posted on it.

Word: Execrate
Meaning: to strongly condemn an individual or thing
Example: After being injured in the war; my uncle came to execrate gun violence.

Word: Execute
Meaning: to put a plan or order into effect
Example: We were unable to execute our beach plans since the weather wasn’t in agreement.

Word: Execution
Meaning: the act of performing a task or command to its completion
Example: The superintendent of the school system knew that the successful execution of the standardized test would require a thoroughly planned system.

Word: Executioner
Meaning: the person who discharges the death of a death penalty criminal 
Example: The protocol for the hanging included draping a dark cloth over the criminal’s head before the executioner released the trap door.

Word: Executive
Meaning: a high-ranking employee in a company or business
Example: Once the strict executive of the Zanda Office Supply Company realized some employees were stealing pens and paper; he fired every one of them.

Word: Executor
Meaning: a person who is authorized to make sure the conditions in a will are fulfilled
Example: When the executor read the will; all the family members listened intently.

Word: Exegesis
Meaning: detailed explanation of a written passage
Example: The student’s exegesis of the novel was one of the best summaries the professor had ever read.

Word: Exemplar
Meaning: a person or thing that serves as a model or ideal
Example: The school valedictorian is an exemplar of the perfect student.

Word: Exemplary
Meaning: something so good that it is an example for others to follow
Example: When my father retired from his company after fifty years of employment; he received a gold watch for his exemplary service.

Word: Exemplification
Meaning: the act of providing a sample; illustration or instance
Example: Lieutenant Sanders was an exemplification for the younger soldiers because he had rescued twenty troops during an attack.

Word: Exemplify
Meaning: to show or illustrate by example
Example: The citizenship trophies are presented to exemplify the best examples of good citizenship among the student body.

Word: Exempt
Meaning: free from a responsibility or obligation that is placed on others
Example: Because I made a perfect score on my last exam; I am exempt from the study guide that all of the other students are required to complete.

Word: Exemption
Meaning: the act of being excluded or immune to a task or obligation
Example: When I explained that I was working a very important job that only I could do; the judge gave me an exemption from jury duty.

Word: Exercise
Meaning: to put something to use such as rights or powers
Example: States must take effective measures to ensure that all persons entitled to vote are able to exercise that right.

Word: Exert 
Meaning: to apply bodily or intellectual effort
Example: The dictator will use military force to exert control over his people.

Word:  Exertion 
Meaning: the effort needed to complete a task
Example: After the surgery; I was told to avoid tasks that required a large amount of physical exertion.

Word: Exeunt
Meaning: a printed direction for actors and actresses to leave the stage of a play
Example: In the Broadway musical; the command was written in the script for the main characters to exeunt stage left because their part was over.

Word: Exfoliate
Meaning: to remove dead skin and cells from the face or body using a gritty scrub
Example: Many women choose to exfoliate their skin in order to expose the new skin underneath for a smoother appearance.

Word: Exhalation
Meaning: the process of releasing air from your lungs
Example: After puffing on a cigarette; the inconsiderate man’s exhalation of the second-hand smoke created a hazard for anyone standing near him.

Word: Exhale
Meaning: to release air from your lungs
Example: Synchronized swimmers wait as long as possible to exhale so that they can hold their breath for a long time.

Word: Exhaust
Meaning: to wear out or use up one's resources or materials
Example: The marathon runner began to exhaust at mile 23.

Word: Exhausted
Meaning: to be very tired having little to no energy
Example: After the colicky baby arrived; the new parents became exhausted from lack of sleep.

Word: Exhaustive
Meaning: leaving nothing out; thorough
Example: Despite an exhaustive search of the apartment; I could not find my car keys.

Word: Exhibit
Meaning: to purposefully show or reveal something
Example: Since the students want to impress their teacher; they exhibit perfect behavior in their class.

Word: Exhibition
Meaning: an event at which objects such as paintings are shown to the public
Example: The art exhibition featured pieces from famous painters around the globe.

Word: Exhibitionist
Meaning: an individual who uses his or her behavior to catch peoples’ attention
Example: The female rapper is an exhibitionist who attracts attention by wearing revealing clothing.

Word: Exhilarate
Meaning: to make an individual extremely happy
Example: Achieving my weight loss goal is sure to exhilarate me.

Word: Exhilarating
Meaning: producing intense feelings of joy or excitement
Example: When I won ten million dollars in the lottery; it was the most exhilarating moment in my life.

Word: Exhort
Meaning: to strongly urge someone to do something
Example: While I cannot force you to drive the speed limit; I exhort you to do so or else you might end up in jail.

Word: Exhume
Meaning: to bring something forth; often a body from the ground
Example: When new evidence was introduced; the detective chose to exhume the elderly woman’s body.

Word: Exigency
Meaning: something that is necessary in a particular situation
Example: Rules are an exigency inside of a prison or else chaos will reign.

Word: Exigent
Meaning: urgent; needing immediate action
Example: The police should always obtain a search warrant unless there is an emergency or exigent circumstances.

Word: Exiguous
Meaning: a tiny quantity of something or a tiny height
Example: Due to my exiguous knowledge of history; I was bound to lose quickly at the history trivia game.

Word: Exile
Meaning: the state of being expelled from one's country or home
Example: The military leader was forced into exile and spent his final days on a small island.

Word: Eximious
Meaning: exceptional; distinguished
Example: Not willing to settle on the venue; the bride looked for an eximious location that would top any other she had seen.

Word: Existence
Meaning: something determined to be real 
Example: Skeptics finally believed in the existence of ghosts once the paranormal activities were detected in their house.

Word: Existent
Meaning: to be living
Example: Questions are always posed about whether the dinosaurs were existent after the Mesozoic Era.

Word: Existential
Meaning: something relating or dealing with existence
Example: Perhaps the most existential question is “what is the meaning of life?”

Word: Exit
Meaning: to go away or leave a place
Example: Once the movie is over; the patrons will exit the theater and get in their cars to go home.

Word: Exodus
Meaning: a situation in which a lot of people leave a place or activity at the same time
Example: One would think that the repeated occurrence of tornadoes in an area would prompt an exodus of the residents to a location with a more stable climate.

Word: Exogamy
Meaning: marrying someone from a different communal group
Example: In order to avoid marrying a relative; the tribe practiced exogamy which involved mostly the surrounding tribes.

Word: Exogenous
Meaning: caused by outside factors
Example: The doctor determined that the woman’s depression was exogenous and stemmed from weather changes and other outside factors.

Word: Exonerate
Meaning: to prove that someone is not guilty of a crime or responsible for a problem; bad situation; etc.
Example: The job of the defense attorney is to exonerate his clients and keep them out of jail.

Word: Exonerated
Meaning: to declare someone not guilty of criminal charges
Example: After being exonerated; the death row inmate was freed from his jail cell.

Word: Exorbitant
Meaning: unreasonably high amount of something; too much
Example: The luxury hotel charges an exorbitant rate of $25 for a single cheeseburger.

Word: Exorcise
Meaning: to drive out an evil spirit from a person; place or thing; especially by an incantation or prayer
Example: Many people turn to religion to exorcise themselves from sin.

Word: Exorcism
Meaning: the act of driving out a demon from a person or place
Example: During the Second World War; some believed Adolf Hitler was possessed by a demon and tried to remove it through a long-distance exorcism.

Word: Exordium
Meaning: the introductory part of a speech
Example: The exordium of the speech explained the reasons why the speaker had selected nursing as a career.

Word: Exoskeleton
Meaning: a hard outer body that covers and protects certain animals; particularly insects
Example: Bats love to eat a certain type of insect; but cannot digest its hard exoskeleton.

Word: Exothermic
Meaning: releasing heat
Example: Because it generated heat; the chemical was considered exothermic.

Word: Exotic 
Meaning: not native; foreign
Example: The customs officer knew the exotic animal had to be put in solitary before it could enter the country.

Word: Expand
Meaning: to increase in size or enlarge
Example: In order to expand the master bedroom; the owner tore through a wall to combine the bedroom and a bonus room.

Word: Expanse
Meaning: an open area that is large in size
Example: The city park is a beautiful expanse of green in the center of town.

Word: Expansion
Meaning: growing larger or more extensive
Example: Expansion into the western part of the United States increased after a huge land deal was struck with the French.

Word: Expansive
Meaning: covering a wide area; extensive
Example: Covering an expansive area; the search team looked high and low for the missing child.

Word: Expansively
Meaning: having a wide range or extent of effect or influence
Example: The company has an expansively built network of cell phone towers to help them provide their service to as many people as possible.

Word: Expatiate
Meaning: to write or talk about something using many details
Example: During his book signing; Clark will expatiate on his military adventures.

Word: Expatriate
Meaning: an individual who does not reside in his native nation or birthplace
Example: My uncle is an expatriate who left the country of his birth to live in France.

Word: Expect
Meaning: to guess or suppose
Example: When everything was going wrong with the flight; we were told to expect the worst with a crash landing.

Word: Expectancy
Meaning: in a state of hoping or expecting something to happen
Example: Right before the storm; the stores restocked their shelves with expectancy of hurried shoppers.

Word: Expectant
Meaning: waiting eagerly for something to happen
Example: Impatiently waiting for her newborn’s arrival; the expectant mother counted down the days until her due date.

Word: Expectation
Meaning: a belief that something is going to happen in the near future
Example: The expectation that a landslide victory would occur was confirmed during the election with seventy percent of the vote going to the incumbent.

Word: Expectorate
Meaning: to expel from the mouth
Example: If Jack wants to feel better; he needs to expectorate the mucus from his lungs.

Word: Expedient
Meaning: suitable to the circumstances; appropriate
Example: Given the fact the police will be looking for us soon; it is expedient we leave this apartment quickly!

Word: Expedite
Meaning: to cause something to happen faster
Example: If you would like to expedite the shipping of your order; please pay the express shipping fee.

Word: Expedition
Meaning: a trip taken for a specific reason
Example: In the television series; the spaceship set off on a ten-year expedition to explore new planets and meet new life forms.

Word: Expeditious
Meaning: performed quickly and efficiently
Example: When I order fast food; I expect to receive it in an expeditious timeframe.

Word: Expel
Meaning: to force something out such as liquid and air; eliminate
Example: When Susan was sick with bronchitis; the doctor told her to cough up the mucus and immediately expel it.

Word: Expend
Meaning: to use up
Example: Our long; midday hike always causes me to expend all of my energy and leaves me exhausted by dinner.

Word: Expendable 
Meaning: not necessary 
Example: The pawn is expendable in a game of chess.

Word: Expenditure 
Meaning: the total needed or spent 
Example: My travel expenditure left my bank account depleted.

Word: Expense
Meaning: a cost or price
Example: Although the dealership agreed to repair the motor for free; the owner had to purchase a battery at an added expense.

Word: Experience
Meaning: knowledge or skill gained by doing
Example: The woman’s previous management experience made her a shoe-in for the leadership position at a local factory.

Word: Experiential
Meaning: knowledge gained from experience and observation
Example: Taking an experiential approach; the company hoped to train employees through hands-on training modules.

Word: Experiment
Meaning: an examination usually in a scientific nature that tests a proposed explanation
Example: The scientists conducted an experiment on rats to determine if the new medication is safe for people.

Word: Experimental
Meaning: something new that is still in the trial stages
Example: Experimental trials provided encouraging results related to new chemotherapy options for cancer patients.

Word: Expert
Meaning: an expert is someone specialized in a given area
Example: As an expert in natural healing; the naturalist provides nutritional advice to cure diseases.

Word: Expertise
Meaning: the knowledge held by one who is an expert in something
Example: Kurt’s computer expertise earned him a high-paying job.

Word: Expiate
Meaning: to make up for something
Example: To expiate for breaking his neighbor’s window; John shoveled snow for three months.

Word: Expire
Meaning: for something; most often a period of time; to end
Example: My contract with the client I work for is set to expire in six months; after which I’ll need to find a new source of work.

Word: Explanation
Meaning: a description of something or someone in order to clarify it
Example: When the new employee was going through her job orientation; the boss provided an explanation of the tasks she would need to perform.

Word: Explanatory
Meaning: the act of describing something
Example: Mr. Doug’s secretary emailed her department an explanatory memo about what should be in the quarterly reports.

Word: Expletive 
Meaning: a term used when swearing; a cuss word
Example: After hearing the comic say one expletive after another; the religious woman left the theater.

Word: Explicable
Meaning: capable of being justified or recognized as true
Example: The only explicable solution to the water shortage problem was to simply conserve as much water as possible.

Word: Explicate 
Meaning: to describe something in a lot of detail
Example: It took the chemist a long time to explicate the chemical process to the group of financial investors.

Word: Explicit
Meaning: specific about rules or what is required
Example: The difficult woman left the maid explicit details about how she wanted her house cleaned.

Word: Explode
Meaning: to blow up something using a violent and noisy tactic
Example: The Los Angeles Bomb Squad detonated the mysterious device before it would explode and damage everything in sight.

Word: Exploit
Meaning: to gain an advantage by doing something unethical 
Example: For hefty paychecks; the paparazzi were willing to exploit the grieving widow at her husband’s funeral.

Word: Exploited
Meaning: utilize someone or something for their own personal gain
Example: “Jane exploited the situation;” Karen responded; “since she only came to our party to eat dinner.”

Word: Exploration
Meaning: adventuring into an unknown place in order to become educated about it
Example: Several kids decided to conduct an exploration of the cave due to their curiosity of science.

Word: Exploratory
Meaning: associated with searching and examining something
Example: For my technical writing class; I decided to conduct exploratory research to narrow down my topic for my next paper.

Word: Explore
Meaning: travel to or examine
Example: Setting out to explore the island was the most adventurous thing the man had ever done.

Word: Explorer
Meaning: an adventurer that explores unfamiliar areas or uncharted territories
Example: Looking for the West Indies; the explorer must have been surprised when he ended up on a completely different continent than what he set sail for.

Word: Explosion
Meaning: a violent blowing apart or bursting caused by a chemical change
Example: The dynamite detonated; causing an earth shattering explosion across the city.

Word: Explosive
Meaning: something that explodes or blows up when ignited
Example: Fearing her husband’s explosive personality; the wife tried to speak softly and avoid any topics that would infuriate him.

Word: Exponent
Meaning: an individual who champions a certain principle or cause; an advocate
Example: Once homeless Janice is now a successful businesswoman and exponent for ending homelessness.

Word: Exponentially
Meaning: increasing rapidly in a sizable quantity
Example: Because of the poor economy; crime has increased exponentially in our state.

Word: Export
Meaning: to send to another nation for retail purposes
Example: If the country did not have oil to export; it would be a very poor nation.

Word: Expose
Meaning: to reveal or uncover something
Example: The blackmailer threatened to expose the politician’s love child.

Word: Exposition
Meaning: the action of putting something out to public view; for example; in a display or show
Example: We attended a Business to Business exposition; where exhibitors displayed their products and services to attract other companies.

Word: Expository 
Meaning: designed to define or explain
Example: The play begins with an expository monologue explaining where the story takes place.

Word: Expostulate
Meaning: to express strong disagreement
Example: My mother never missed the opportunity to expostulate her opinion anytime my father did something which displeased her.

Word: Exposure
Meaning: unprotected or visible to others
Example: Exposure to ultra-violet rays from the sun can lead to skin cancer; so it is necessary to cover yourself with sunscreen.

Word: Expound
Meaning: to clarify by providing details
Example: During his graduation speech; Thad will expound his hopes and prayers for his graduating class.

Word: Express
Meaning: communicate; articulate
Example: Meteorologists began to express their concern about a storm moving into the area.

Word: Expression
Meaning: the look on one’s face that shows what he or she is feeling
Example: Looking at the excited expression on her daughter’s face; Donna was happy that she could make her little girl’s dreams come true.

Word: Expressive
Meaning: animated; dramatic
Example: The expressive dance routine was added to the boring show to give an animated touch.

Word: Expressly
Meaning: specifically; clearly
Example: The regulations for entry are expressly and clearly stated in the rulebook.

Word: Expropriate
Meaning: to take away property without payment to the owner
Example: The pirate’s made their living by being able to expropriate the property of others they happened upon.

Word: Expulsion
Meaning: a circumstance in which an individual or thing is ejected from a position; place; or group
Example: Since Henry hated school; the threat of expulsion did not make him behave.

Word: Expunge
Meaning: to remove completely
Example: I would like to expunge my ex-husband from my memory.

Word: Expurgate
Meaning: to edit out rude; incorrect; offensive; useless; or otherwise undesirable information; to purge
Example: The rapper was told that if he did not expurgate the offensive lyrics from his new song; it would never be played on the radio.

Word: Exquisite
Meaning: especially fine or pleasing; exceptional
Example: She wore an exquisite dress; which left all the guests staring in surprise.

Word: Extant
Meaning: still around; not extinct
Example: The extant writings of the ancient philosopher are still quite popular with philosophy students.

Word: Extemporaneous
Meaning: completed without any type of advance preparation
Example: Instead of giving his prepared speech; the minister delivered an extemporaneous statement about the recent terrorist attacks.

Word: Extempore
Meaning: impromptu; done without preparation
Example: An extempore meeting was called without notice to terminate employees who hadn’t lived up to performance standards.

Word: Extemporize
Meaning: to improvise; especially while giving a speech or performing music
Example: The pianist was able to extemporize and play a piece without music or preparation.

Word: Extend
Meaning: to move outward
Example: The procrastinating students requested for the professor to extend the deadline for the essay.

Word: Extension
Meaning: the act of moving something outward
Example: Since the plug was across the room; Toby needed an extension so the cord could reach his computer.

Word: Extensive
Meaning: having a large scale
Example: It will take several months for the city to clean up the extensive damage caused by the hurricane.

Word: Extensively
Meaning: to a large degree
Example: Having toured the area extensively; the man felt that he had a lot of background knowledge on what was needed in Amsterdam.

Word: Extent
Meaning: the distance or magnitude something spreads or covers
Example: No one knew the extent of her son’s injury since the school only gave minute details of what happened on the playground.

Word: Extenuate
Meaning: to cause a wrong act to be judged less harshly because of circumstances
Example: The woman’s troubled childhood wasn’t enough to extenuate or excuse her of killing her husband.

Word: Extenuating
Meaning: to lessen the seriousness of a wrong act
Example: The court reduced the criminal’s sentence because of extenuating circumstances.

Word: Exterior
Meaning: pertaining to the outside of something
Example: When I noticed the chipped paint on the exterior of my house; I hired a professional to paint the outer part of my house.

Word: Exterminate
Meaning: to destroy completely
Example: Needing help to exterminate the bugs; the pest control worker ordered specialized repellant.

Word: External
Meaning: the exterior or outside of something
Example: When the two children continued to physically fight; this external conflict would cause their parents to get tired of hearing the bickering.

Word: Extinct
Meaning: no longer active or in existence
Example: Even though dinosaurs are extinct; people can learn more about them by visiting a museum.

Word: Extinction
Meaning: the process of a species completely dying out
Example: Extinction of the species happened after poachers killed many of the animals.

Word: Extinguish
Meaning: to snuff out or eliminate something
Example: She learned that the only way to extinguish a grease fire is to eliminate the oxygen by covering it with another pan or pouring baking soda on top.

Word: Extirpate
Meaning: to totally eliminate
Example: Hopefully the pesticides will extirpate the insects from my garden.

Word: Extol
Meaning: to praise
Example: Because Helen and Gina were jealous of their sister’s good fortune; they did not extol her when she won the academic scholarship.

Word: Extort
Meaning: to take from an unwilling person
Example: When Larry was fired; he attempted to extort cash from his former boss by threatening to expose the man’s drug addiction.

Word: Extortion
Meaning: the practice of obtaining money from someone through force; threats; or abuse of power
Example: The criminal committed extortion when he threatened to hurt the victim’s family if she didn’t give him money.

Word: Extract
Meaning: to pull an object from something in order to remove it; usually with force
Example: When the dentist noticed the infected tissue around his patient's gums; he knew he would have to extract the tooth.

Word: Extraction
Meaning: the process of removing something or taking it out
Example: The man paid for the extraction of just one tooth but ended up having another one removed as well.

Word: Extradite
Meaning: to send an individual accused of a crime back to the area in which the crime took place
Example: The state will soon extradite Cal to the island nation where he is wanted for assaulting a young girl.

Word: Extraneous
Meaning:  not essential or coming from the outside
Example: Because of so many extraneous details in the instructions; Dad wasn’t able to put the toy together in time for Christmas morning.

Word: Extraordinaire
Meaning: someone or something that is outstanding or remarkable
Example: That man is an extraordinaire; being someone that goes on remarkable adventures with his ludicrous amounts of cash.

Word: Extraordinary
Meaning: amazingly good
Example: Henry is an extraordinary pianist who has played for three presidents and several royal families.

Word: Extravagant
Meaning: excessive; exceeding normal bounds
Example: Rick spent nearly a year’s salary on the extravagant engagement ring.

Word: Extravaganza
Meaning: excessive and lavish celebration or performance
Example: Carnival in Venice; Italy; is an annual extravaganza of elaborate masks; dancing; music; and feasting before Lent.

Word: Extreme
Meaning: to a very large degree or amount
Example: Laura always takes arguments to the extreme and quickly turns things physical.

Word: Extremist
Meaning: a person who holds radical views that are viewed as extreme or fanatical
Example: Because they are an extremist group; ISIS has some very fanatical religious views.

Word: Extremity
Meaning: a risky measure
Example: Who would have ever thought Patrick would go to the extremity of jumping out of an airplane to propose to Michelle?

Word: Extricate
Meaning: to free or remove something or someone 
Example: If the magician does not extricate himself from the water tank in the next forty-five seconds; he will die.

Word: Extrinsic
Meaning: not belonging to; outside of
Example: We did not expect there to be any issues with our wedding date; however the weather turned into an extrinsic factor that forced us to change the date.

Word: Extrovert
Meaning: an individual who is sociable and enjoys conversing with others
Example: Because Pat is an extrovert who enjoys chatting with others; she is the ideal talk show host.

Word: Extrude
Meaning: to force out
Example: The volcano began to extrude lava; shooting the hot liquid up and over its sides.

Word: Extrusive
Meaning: describes rock material that was made when magma was pushed out through holes in the earth's surface
Example: After the lava cooled extrusive slabs of rock were scattered around the outer edge of the volcano.

Word: Exuberance
Meaning: the quality of being exuberant; cheerful or vigorous enthusiasm; liveliness
Example: Even though the children’s choir had trouble getting the words of the songs right; their exuberance in singing more than made up for it.

Word: Exuberant
Meaning: filled with energy and enthusiasm
Example: Even though Johnny was not a very good basketball player; he had such an exuberant attitude that he came across as one of the stars of the team.

Word: Exudation
Meaning: a condition of something quickly flowing out or forward
Example: As the young man came dressed in a suit and presented himself professionally; the exudation of class was apparent to anyone who was in the same room with him.

Word: Exude
Meaning: to openly display an emotion or quality
Example: After accomplishing so much; he could not help but exude confidence in himself.

Word: Exult
Meaning: to rejoice; be very happy
Example: Christians are taught to exult Christ above all else.

Word: Exultation
Meaning: a feeling of triumphant elation or jubilation
Example: Harry’s feelings of exultation intensified as he neared the end of his prison term.

Word: Eye candy
Meaning: something visually appealing that brings pleasure without stimulating the brain
Example: Many think of Channing Tatum as nothing more than eye candy; but he’s actually a talented dancer and photographer as well as an actor.

Word: Eyesore
Meaning: an unpleasant or ugly sight that is in a public place (i.e. building; statue).
Example: The casino was an eyesore to the community members who hated looking at the neon lights.

Word: Fable
Meaning: a fictional tale; often with talking animals; meant to present a moral value
Example: In the fable ‘The Tortoise and the Hare;’ we see that sometimes it is better to take things slow and steady if we really want to have success.

Word: Fabricate
Meaning: to make up for the purpose of deception
Example: The journalist got fired when his editor learned of his plan to fabricate a story about the president.

Word: Fabulist
Meaning: a story-writer who composes or rewrites fables
Example: The fabulist wrote tales about talking animals living long ago.

Word: Fabulous
Meaning: amazing or wonderful
Example: The amount of money we made during the fundraiser was absolutely fabulous; covering the cost of not only our current project; but the repaving of the school parking lot as well.

Word: Facade
Meaning: deceptive outward appearance
Example: I often find myself putting up a facade when I’m around my troubled brother.

Word: Face
Meaning: the surface of (especially the front) of a thing
Example: The face of the table had a scratch that ran all the way across the top.

Word: Facet
Meaning: a side or aspect of something
Example: “Beyond a reasonable doubt” means that you must explore every facet of the case.

Word: Facetious
Meaning: joking often inappropriately; not serious
Example: Do you always have to be so facetious?

Word: Facial
Meaning: of or affecting the face
Example: The actor read his lines and practiced his facial expressions in the mirror.

Word: Facile
Meaning: easily performed
Example: While the adults found the video game complicated; the teenagers thought it was facile and easily played.

Word: Facilitate
Meaning: to make something occur or less difficult
Example: The translator will facilitate the conversation between the immigrant and the attorney.

Word: Facilitation
Meaning: the process of something becoming easier or simpler
Example: Due to the teacher’s facilitation of the skills in her class; my grade jumped from making low D’s to A’s and B’s.

Word: Facility
Meaning: space or equipment necessary to accomplish a task
Example: There is no facility available to produce our cupcakes; so we will have to continue working from home.

Word: Facsimile
Meaning: a copy or reproduction
Example: He offered a facsimile of the original painting for a much discounted price.

Word: Fact
Meaning: a truthful statement
Example: My mother hid the fact that my dad was not my real father for more than forty years.

Word: Faction
Meaning: a group within a larger group that has different ideas and opinions than the rest of the group
Example: In the novel; the heroine was born into a faction of the population that dedicated their lives to helping each other.

Word: Factious 
Meaning: given to disagreements that lead to the development of conflict and problems within a group
Example: When my factious son gets mad with one of his pals; he tries to separate the person from the group by starting an argument.

Word: Factor
Meaning: an element that contributes to a circumstance or situation
Example: The high fuel consumption is the main factor that deters me from buying the vehicle.

Word: Factory
Meaning: a building were products are made
Example: Factory employees work Monday through Friday making the rubber stoppers that go in bathtubs.

Word: Factotum
Meaning: person having many responsibilities
Example: After accomplishing every task on the woman’s list from installing a new sink to babysitting the children; the factotum proved his worth and earned his pay for the day.

Word: Factual
Meaning: having the quality or characteristic of being true or grounded in reality
Example: That two plus two equals four is a completely factual statement; and no one can ever claim it to be false.

Word: Faculty
Meaning: the teaching staff of an educational organization; such as a school or university
Example: My favorite member of the faculty here at school is Mr. Earhart; because he teaches my favorite class.

Word: Faculty
Meaning: the teachers who work at a school or university
Example: Faculty pictures were included with the students in the school yearbook.

Word: Fade
Meaning: a gradual decrease; dim movie clip or diminish sound
Example: I don’t care for the speed sensitive volume control feature on my car because the music will fade when I come to a complete stop.

Word: Fahrenheit
Meaning: a temperature scale in which 32 degrees is the standard for freezing and 212 degrees is the boiling point
Example: If you crank the heat up to 212 degrees Fahrenheit; the water in the pot will begin to boil.

Word: Failure
Meaning: a disaster or flop
Example: The fashion show was a failure after the models fell off the runway; the lighting did not work and very few people showed up to watch the event.

Word: Fain
Meaning: pleased or inclined to do something
Example: Although I was on a diet; I was fain to eat a large slice of cake.

Word: Faint
Meaning: weak and dizzy
Example: Because she felt faint; the exhausted woman went to lie down for a while.

Word: Fair
Meaning: just in decisions; right or ethical
Example: The fair judge always made decisions that were in the reasonable and just.

Word: Fairness
Meaning: the condition of being reasonable; impartial; and just
Example: Many students loved their English teacher due to her fairness by treating each student equal to the other students.

Word: Fairway
Meaning: an open path or space; particularly for playing golf
Example: The golfer hit a tee shot over the water past the green fairway.

Word: Fait accompli 
Meaning: already completed and unchangeable
Example: The low grade on my project was a fait accompli the teacher saw no reason to alter.

Word: Faithful
Meaning: to be loyal to someone or something
Example: After being caught in a small lie; the citizens remained faithful to the mayor since he had done so much good for their town and they could forgive a small lie.

Word: Fakir
Meaning: a Muslim or Hindi holy man with magical powers who makes a living by begging
Example: An Indian fakir roamed the city begging for alms from those who help the poor.

Word: Fallacy
Meaning: an idea or belief that is false but many people think is true
Example: Having money makes you happy is a fallacy because happiness has nothing to do with wealth.

Word: Fallen
Meaning: having dropped by the force of gravity
Example: I spent countless hours before winter begins raking leaves that have fallen from trees.

Word: Fallible
Meaning: capable of making mistakes or being wrong
Example: Even though we are all fallible to some degree; the most successful people have learned how to rise above their weaknesses.

Word: Fallow
Meaning: not being used
Example: At the end of summer; the once crowded beaches become fallow as the young people return to school.

Word: FALSE
Meaning: untrue; fake
Example: False news filled the internet; tricking people into believing lies.

Word: Falsehood
Meaning: something that is an outright lie or fib
Example: Despite the fact that Henry VIII told an obvious falsehood about his wife’s infidelity; the people of England were too scared to question the king and she was beheaded.

Word: Falsetto
Meaning: an unnaturally high and feminine voice particularly sung by a male
Example: The young man sang in a high; clear falsetto that rivaled the most talented female singers.

Word: Falsify 
Meaning: to dishonestly change something in order to trick people
Example: Knowing it was wrong to falsify the truth; the girl admitted to losing her assignment.

Word: Falsity
Meaning: something that is false; an outright lie; or simply incorrect
Example: A common historical falsity is that only Jews suffered under Hitler’s reign; but other marginalized groups were persecuted as well.

Word: Falter
Meaning: to hesitate; stumble; or waver
Example: When the bank teller noticed that the masked man began to falter slightly; she discreetly pressed the silent alarm.

Word: Familial 
Meaning: family-related
Example: Children of the same familial background are likely to follow similar career paths.

Word: Familiar
Meaning: to have knowledge of
Example: Mia wasn't familiar with the astrophysics but after reading a few textbooks on the subject she learned quickly.

Word: Familiarize
Meaning: to make; or become familiar with something or someone
Example: Having just moved in; I walked around to familiarize myself with the neighborhood.

Word: Family
Meaning: a group of people related to one another
Example: All of the family members look alike because of their red hair and freckled faces.

Word: Famine
Meaning: a severe food shortage or period when food is in short supply
Example: Many people have starved to death because of the famine.

Word: Famish
Meaning: to make someone extremely hungry
Example: Three days without anything to eat was enough to famish the lost campers.

Word: Famished
Meaning: extremely hungry
Example: The man had not eaten for days; so when I asked if he was hungry he responded by saying “I’m famished.”

Word: Famous
Meaning: well-known; famed
Example: The chef became so famous for her meals that she was given her own cooking show.

Word: Fanatic
Meaning: one who is extremely passionate about something; often a religion or cause 
Example: My husband is an exercise fanatic who runs six miles every day.

Word: Fanatical
Meaning: having an extreme; irrational zeal or enthusiasm for a specific cause
Example: Richard is fanatical about his beliefs; preaching to anyone that will listen.

Word: Fanaticism 
Meaning: a state of irrational enthusiasm or admiration
Example: The followers of the cult displayed their fanaticism by drinking their leader’s blood.

Word: Fancied
Meaning: liked or felt a desire for
Example: The couple fancied a night out on the town; so they got dressed and called a cab.

Word: Fanciful
Meaning: imaginative or unreal
Example: Because she had a wild imagination; she loved to create fanciful stories in her spare time.

Word: Fanciful
Meaning: coming from the imagination; dreamlike
Example: The storyteller told fanciful tales about talking mermaids and fearless princesses.

Word: Fancy schmancy
Meaning: extraordinarily impressive and expensive
Example: I know you're fashionable; but dressing up in a fancy schmancy suit and tie to eat at McDonald's is excessive.

Word: Fancy
Meaning: to want to do something
Example: We fancy a trip to the islands; but our budget won’t allow it.

Word: Fanfare
Meaning: the attention of the public or prestigious ceremony
Example: The President received a great deal of fanfare when he announced his plans on immigration; so the news spread word of it quickly.

Word: Fantastic
Meaning: extraordinarily good; incredibly wonderful
Example: The strong winds make for a fantastic day of kite flying.

Word: Fantastical
Meaning: odd and remarkable; as if it came from the imagination
Example: The woman’s real-life success story sounded like some fantastical movie plot.

Word: Fantasy
Meaning: a pleasant thought of an unlikely enjoyable situation
Example: When she was young; I often found my daughter Kendra in her room withdrawn into her own fantasy world.

Word: Farce
Meaning: a ridiculous situation or event
Example: Many argue that the government today is a mere farce of what it started out as.

Word: Farcical
Meaning: bizarre or outlandish
Example: Critics described the farcical play as an absurd piece of writing that could have only been created by an intoxicated playwright.

Word: Fare
Meaning: the fee an individual is charged in order to be transported somewhere 
Example: The airline fare will set me back by eight hundred dollars.

Word: Farewell
Meaning: goodbye to one who is departing
Example: Tearful onlookers waved farewell to the departing soldiers heading to Afghanistan.

Word: Farfetched
Meaning: unlikely; unbelievable
Example: The idea that the losing team could come back and win was farfetched; but we held out hope.

Word: Farouche
Meaning: wildly fierce while remaining unapproachable by others
Example: The farouche canine growled and snarled as he backed away from those trying to capture it.

Word: Farrago
Meaning: a collection containing a confused variety of miscellaneous things
Example: The present gun law is a farrago of nonsense as most of it is unenforceable.

Word: Farther
Meaning: referring to a larger physical distance
Example: We have to walk farther than usual today because there was construction work on our usual route to school.

Word: Fascinate
Meaning: to capture and hold someone’s attention or interest
Example: The idea of a president that would strengthen the middle class seemed to fascinate those listening to the speech.

Word: Fascination
Meaning: intense intrigue or interest in something
Example: My fascination with the stars as a child led me to become an astronomer later in life; as I just love studying those stars and learning more about them.

Word: Fascism
Meaning: a government that is ruled by a powerful dictator having control of everyone/everything
Example: When the mayor discussed the possibility of a local curfew; the citizens immediately accused him of fascism.

Word: Fascist
Meaning: related to a government system led by a dictator with complete power
Example: The fascist regime has taken over the area and is ruling the city with an iron fist.

Word: Fashionable
Meaning: popular; stylish
Example: It took much persuading to convince my aunt that her bell-bottom jeans and platform shoes are no longer fashionable.

Word: Fast
Meaning: moving at high speed or capable of high speed
Example: People who love to go fast could experience no greater thrill than the supersonic flight of a fighter jet.

Word: Fasten
Meaning: to make something secure or attached
Example: Stuffing himself at the dinner table left the man unable to fasten his belt when he got up.

Word: Fastidious
Meaning: concerned about accuracy and detail; hard to please
Example: My mother was a fastidious woman who always had a complaint on her lips.

Word: Fat cat
Meaning: a rich and influential person who is in business or politics
Example: People are easily angered when they read that another fat cat Pharmaceutical CEO receives a bonus while the public is paying higher drug prices.

Word: Fatal
Meaning: causes death or leads to a disaster
Example: Dropping a fatal dose of poison into the goblet; the evil queen smiled down at her deathly elixir.

Word: Fatalist
Meaning: one who maintains that all events have been predetermined; and that one cannot prevent things from happening
Example: As a fatalist; the woman refused to believe that luck had anything to do with the events in her life.

Word: Fatality
Meaning: death resulting from an accident or disaster
Example: Fatality rates for motorcycle crashes is over 27 times that of automobiles.

Word: Fated
Meaning: decided in advance; destined
Example: Keith believes he is fated to have an alcohol addiction because his mother was an alcoholic.

Word: Fateful
Meaning: important; momentous
Example: Until the fateful meeting with Martin Luther King Jr.; the activist never knew the impact of nonviolent protests.

Word: Fatherhood
Meaning: the state of being a father to a child
Example: Although he knew nothing about caring for children; the man threw himself into fatherhood.

Word: Fathom
Meaning: to penetrate for understanding
Example: Since I have always done my work; I cannot fathom why my boss just fired me.

Word: Fathomless
Meaning: too great to be measured
Example: The depths of the ocean seemed fathomless; reaching deeper than any man could measure.

Word: Fatigue
Meaning: weariness brought on by exertion
Example: During the fifteen-mile hike; one of the hikers collapsed from fatigue.

Word: Fatiguing
Meaning: tiring; exhausting
Example: We enjoyed the free cruise; but the mandatory seminar was fatiguing and took a lot of our time.

Word: Fatuity
Meaning: pointless foolishness and stupidity
Example: Even in his 40’s; the irresponsible man spent most of his salary on video games and other fatuity.

Word: Fatuous
Meaning: lacking intelligence; stupid
Example: Buying a car without negotiating down the price is a fatuous move.

Word: Faulty
Meaning: defective and not functioning properly
Example: Faulty wiring within the kitchen walls sent the house into flames.

Word: Fauna
Meaning: wildlife of a specific area
Example: The forest’s fauna are safeguarded by local wildlife life protection laws.

Word: Faux pas 
Meaning: a social blunder that is quite embarrassing
Example: Claire committed a huge faux pas when she wore black to her cousin’s wedding.

Word: Favor
Meaning: preference for something more than its counterpart
Example: Grandmother tended to favor boys over girls.

Word: Favorable
Meaning: positive; showing approval
Example: Favorable weather conditions brought both tourists and locals to the beach.

Word: Favoritism
Meaning: showing partiality and preferential treatment
Example: Showing favoritism between her children caused the mother’s oldest son to resent her.

Word: Fawn
Meaning: to seek favor or approval by giving extra attention or praise
Example: It was interesting to watch the greedy woman fawn over the wealthy old man.

Word: Fawning
Meaning: giving attention in an overly flattering manner
Example: Even the female reporters were smiling wildly and fawning over the handsome actor.

Word: Faze
Meaning: unnerve; disturb
Example: Negative comments aimed at the politician did not faze his nerves of steel.

Word: Fealty
Meaning: an official acknowledgment of loyalty
Example: When the president took his oath; he swore fealty to the nation.

Word: Fearful
Meaning: experiencing a feeling of fear
Example: Fearful of airplane rides; the terrified passenger braced herself for takeoff.

Word: Fearless
Meaning: bold and unafraid
Example: Fearless in the face of danger; Mala Yousafzai spoke up for the right of girls to be educated.

Word: Fearlessness
Meaning: feeling no sense of fear
Example: Priding themselves on fearlessness; neither of the brave warriors would retreat from battle.

Word: Fearmongering
Meaning: the spreading of frightening rumors with the intention of causing fear or chaos
Example: Fearmongering by the media caused the citizens to fear a nuclear war that wasn’t even looming.

Word: Fearsome
Meaning: frightening or scary
Example: Few creatures of the American forests are more fearsome than the Grizzly Bear; a hulking beast with massive teeth and claws.

Word: Feasible
Meaning: to do without too much difficulty; possible
Example: Driving with your eyes closed is not feasible.

Word: Feast
Meaning: a large meal that is usually part of a celebration
Example: Patrons brought in enormous platters food for a large feast in honor of St. Joseph.

Word: Feat
Meaning: a deed of courage; endurance; skill; or cleverness
Example: The man was honored when the king learned of his feat.

Word: Feather
Meaning: a soft; thin outgrowth that covers the body of a bird
Example: The bird’s soft feather detached from its wing and slowly floated down to the ground.

Word: Feature
Meaning: a distinctive aspect of something
Example: The most notable feature of his face was the piercing blue eyes that were as vivid as the sky itself and just as vast.

Word: Febrile
Meaning: associated with a fever
Example: The mother gave her febrile son acetaminophen to bring down his body temperature.

Word: Feckless
Meaning: someone who is irresponsible or ineffective
Example: Larry was such a feckless manager that the company was forced to declare bankruptcy.

Word: Fecund
Meaning: intellectually productive or inventive
Example: The computer programmer was a fecund person who could quickly identify and solve problems.

Word: Fed
Meaning: supplied someone or something with food
Example: As a volunteer; the days when she fed the homeless were most rewarding.

Word: Federal
Meaning: relating to a state of government in which several states are united but are independent in internal affairs
Example: The United States is an inherently federal government with many separate yet unified states working together.

Word: Federal
Meaning: related to the central government
Example: The federal court judge will rule on cases where crimes against the government were committed.

Word: Fight
Meaning: to produce a positive outcome; defeat or achieve something
Example: Jake arrived early at the community walk event to support the fight to stomp out homelessness.

Word: Figment
Meaning: something that is believed to be real but only exists in imagination
Example: My young daughter claims to have a unicorn as a best friend; but such a thing is clearly a figment of her imagination.

Word: Figurative
Meaning: not accurate in meaning; as a form of speech
Example: If you use figurative language; you are not speaking literally but rather in a manner meant to produce a reaction.

Word: Figuratively
Meaning: not literally
Example: Jim told the judge that when he spoke of chopping off Scott’s head; he meant it figuratively and not physically.

Word: Figure of speech
Meaning: an expressive phrase that has a meaning other than the literal one
Example: She is as pretty as a picture is a figure of speech that describes the beauty of the lady.

Word: Figure of speech
Meaning: a word or phrase that means something different than the literal meaning and is used for emphasis or effect
Example: When Freda wants to eat; she uses the figure of speech “I’m as hungry a horse.”

Word: Filch
Meaning: to take illegally
Example: The pickpocket was able to filch three wallets while on the subway.

Word: Filial
Meaning: pertaining to a son or daughter
Example: Frank has a filial affection for the uncle who raised him.

Word: Filibuster
Meaning: a delaying tactic; a long speech given in order to delay progress or the making of a decision
Example: The senator will filibuster to prevent a vote on the bill.

Word: Filigree
Meaning: a delicate and intricate ornamentation made from twisted gold or silver wire
Example: When the man went to purchase a gift for mother’s day; he chose a silver filigree necklace.

Word: Filler
Meaning: a short article or ad in a newspaper or magazine
Example: Reader’s Digest magazine uses unique jokes for a filler and will often pay their readers for the use of them.

Word: Filthy
Meaning: extremely dirty
Example: Because she never cleans her filthy home; the lazy housewife’s house is caked in dirt.

Word: Finagle
Meaning: to acquire something by deception or scam
Example: In order to finagle getting the candy from his father before dinner; the little boy explained to his dad that mom was serving dinner at a much later time.

Word: Finale
Meaning: the grand end of something especially a show or piece of music 
Example: I was on the edge of my seat last night while watching the finale of my favorite television show.

Word: Finality
Meaning: a final or unchangeable condition
Example: I could not stop crying when I realized graduation was the finality of my high school life.

Word: Finance
Meaning: to pay for something or provide monetary support for it
Example: A politician that is truly interested in a particular cause will finance that cause with their own money.

Word: Financial
Meaning: related to money matters
Example: Because of financial problems; the struggling family can no longer waste money on things like going out to eat or to the movies.

Word: Finery
Meaning: expensive objects or clothing
Example: The evening dress designer’s finery is sold for several thousand dollars each in her high-end shop.

Word: Finesse
Meaning: skillful handling of a situation
Example: The chess champion played the game with a finesse that allowed him to easily beat all the other players.

Word: Fingerprint
Meaning: the mark made on something from the tips of the fingers
Example: After analyzing the fingerprint that was left at the crime scene; Detective Jones determined that it was left by the criminal when he put his naked hand on the table.

Word: Finicky
Meaning: overly fussy and particular in regards to taste or standards
Example: The finicky toddler refuses to eat anything other than chicken strips and French fries.

Word: Finish
Meaning: complete something or task; a final end
Example: On school days; Kathleen needs to finish her homework before playing outside.

Word: Finite
Meaning: having limits
Example: They had only a finite amount of gas; which is why they had to turn the generator off during the day.

Word: Firebrand
Meaning: someone who is passionate about a social or political cause and tries to make people feel the same by stirring up emotions and instigating trouble
Example: Because he was labeled a firebrand; the protester was not allowed to attend the rally.

Word: Firm
Meaning: solid; refusing to bend
Example: The firm steel-rod could not be broken except under intense pressure.

Word: Firmament
Meaning: the body of the sky
Example: According to many versions of religious scripture; God molded man from the firmament of the sky and placed him on Earth.

Word: First and foremost
Meaning: predominantly and mainly
Example: First and foremost; security guards are required to make sure everyone is safe during a bank robber before trying to subdue the robber.

Word: First of all
Meaning: to happen prior to anything else
Example: “First of all; we need to pray for the children killed in the bomb blast;” the priest said to the congregation and then they prayed for all the other problems.

Word: Firsthand
Meaning: obtained personally or directly (usually referring to information drawn from a source)
Example: Survivors of the plane crash gave firsthand accounts to the news reporter once they were released from the hospital.

Word: Fiscal
Meaning: associated with financial affairs
Example: My daughter lacks a sense of fiscal duty and rarely pays her bills on time.

Word: Fission
Meaning: splitting something into two or more parts
Example: Nuclear fission is made by separating one atom or combining two different atoms.

Word: Fissure
Meaning: a narrow opening or crack
Example: The homeowners were dismayed to discover a fissure in the foundation of their home.

Word: Fisticuffs
Meaning: a fight that involves using fists as weapons
Example: While the two men were outside engaging in fisticuffs; the woman they were fighting over left the bar with another man.

Word: Fitful
Meaning: unsteady; erratic 
Example: Jim was tired when he woke up after a fitful night of sleep.

Word: Fitness
Meaning: a state of healthy physical condition
Example: Fitness is an important part of your life; making sure your body stays healthy so you can live a longer and happier life.

Word: Fixated 
Meaning: focused solely on one thing or person
Example: The stalker was completely fixated on the actress.

Word: Fixture
Meaning: an object or device permanently attached to the wall of a structure
Example: Replacing the brass light fixture in the old house by installing a modern ceiling fan made the house look newer.

Word: Fizgig
Meaning: a young woman who acts silly and flirty
Example: The playful fizgig threw herself at any man at the bar who took notice of her.

Word: Fizzle
Meaning: to finish something or die out slowly
Example: Karen’s and John’s argument about money began to fizzle out when a bonus check just arrived in the mail.

Word: Fjord
Meaning: a lengthy but thin body of water stretching through steep bluffs on either side
Example: Sailing proved difficult for the expert boaters when they tried to cruise through the fjord without hitting the rocky sides.

Word: Flabbergasted
Meaning: overwhelmed by amazement
Example: As a single mother on a tight budget; I am flabbergasted by the huge cost of video games.

Word: Flaccid
Meaning: short on force or strength
Example: The flaccid wind did not stir the chimes on the front porch.

Word: Flagellate
Meaning: to punish by severely whipping for a certain purpose
Example: American citizens feared the courts would flagellate them for vandalizing cars in Singapore leaving strap marks on their backs.

Word: Flagellum
Meaning: a long tail-like part of a cell that helps it move
Example: Biologists analyzed the flagellum under a powerful microscope to determine if it provided assistance to a cell’s function.

Word: Flagging
Meaning: becoming weaker; slower; or less effective
Example: The man’s flagging business is now on the verge of closing its doors forever.

Word: Flagitious
Meaning: to act in an evil way
Example: Every student would avoid walking near the flagitious bully due to his abusive words and violent actions.

Word: Flagrant
Meaning: noticeably bad
Example: After the basketball player committed a flagrant foul; he was kicked out of the game.

Word: Flagship
Meaning: the ship that carries the commander of a fleet
Example: The commander boarded the flagship and prepared for its maiden voyage.

Word: Flagship
Meaning: the best or most important thing produced by a company
Example: The chain’s flagship store sells more hamburgers than any other location.

Word: Flail
Meaning: to move uncontrollably in the air
Example: When Pete’s daughter ran out into the middle of the street; he had to flail his arms to get the cars to stop.

Word: Flailing
Meaning: to move uncontrollably in the air
Example: Her flailing sign flapped in the heavy wind since it was only secured to the post with two staples.

Word: Flair
Meaning: the natural capability to do something very well
Example: Anna demonstrated her flair for drama by passing out when her daughter announced she was not going to college.

Word: Flak
Meaning: adverse criticism
Example: The unhappy customer gave George flak for the long wait time.

Word: Flamboyant
Meaning: displaying flashy or loud behavior
Example: The flamboyant singer loves to wear shimmering suits while performing.

Word: Flame
Meaning: something that is compared to fire’s ability to burn fiercely or be extinguished
Example: The flame of hope burns brightly in the hearts of the rebels even though their plight is dire and they face death every day.

Word: Flare
Meaning: a sudden pop of fire
Example: The flare from the lighter scared the small child as the flame illuminated her face.

Word: Flash in the pan
Meaning: something that happened only once or for a short time and was not repeated
Example: The one-hit-wonder’s music career was as short as a flash in the pan.

Word: Flash
Meaning: a sudden brief burst of bright light or a sudden glint from a reflective surface
Example: The first flash of the fireworks caught her by surprise.

Word: Flashback
Meaning: part of a story or life that reveals something that happened previously
Example: We learned about the main character’s childhood through a long flashback.

Word: Flashy
Meaning: showy and wanting to show off one’s wealth/skills in an obnoxious way
Example: The rap mogul was flashy with his money and showed off his wealth through blinged-out jewelry and expensive cars.

Word: Flat
Meaning: low and smooth with no curved parts
Example: People once thought the world was flat; but now realize that it is round in shape.

Word: Flatline
Meaning: to stop being popular or successful
Example: After the actor was accused of several crimes; his success began to flatline; and he lost his fortune.

Word: Flatten
Meaning: to make something completely flat or level
Example: Joel requested the chef flatten his burger since he prefers thin meat over thick chunks of beef.

Word: Flattery
Meaning: giving excessive and often fake compliments to receive a favor
Example: The failing student tried to use flattery to persuade his teacher to up his grade; but no number of compliments were enough to convince her.

Word: Flatulence
Meaning: state of having gas in the digestive system 
Example: I have a major problem with flatulence that is rather embarrassing especially when I’m in public.

Word: Flaunt
Meaning: to show off (brag)
Example: Eric loves to flaunt his flashy clothes because he thinks that he is super cool.

Word: Flaw
Meaning: a fault or imperfection in a person or object
Example: The diamond had no flaw and was perfect in every way.

Word: Fleck
Meaning: a small patch of color or light
Example: In the darkness of the night sky; each star is a fleck of light that makes the entire thing brighter and more than a sheet of black.

Word: Fledgling
Meaning: an individual or group that is inexperienced or not fully matured
Example: The fledgling writer could use the benefit of a good editor.

Word: Flee
Meaning: to run away
Example: Deciding to flee her war-stricken country; the refugee made a plan to leave quickly.

Word: Fleece
Meaning: a soft; warm fabric with a texture similar to sheep's wool that is used as a lining material
Example: The fuzzy fleece jacket kept the camper warm on the cold winter night.

Word: Fleet
Meaning: a group of vehicles that are under the same command or with the same purpose and headed to the same place
Example: The police fleet raced down the highway after a stolen vehicle.

Word: Fleeting
Meaning: occurring for only a brief time
Example: Now that my daughter’s fleeting interest in ballet has passed; I no longer have to be her chauffeur.

Word: Flexibility
Meaning: the ability to bend or twist the body without injury
Example: The ballerina’s flexibility allowed her to do lots of bends and turns.

Word: Flexible
Meaning: easy to bend or change
Example: If your vacation dates are flexible; you can get a much better deal than if you are rigid.

Word: Flexion
Meaning: bending a limb
Example: Ankle flexion before running can help strengthen the muscles and make the sprint for more manageable.

Word: Flexuous
Meaning: having bends or curves
Example: Driving down the flexuous road; the driver was made nervous by all of the sharp curves and abrupt bends.

Word: Flibbertigibbet
Meaning: a flighty individual who talks a great deal about nothing
Example: It was my misfortune to be stuck next to a chatty flibbertigibbet during the bus ride home.

Word: Flibbertigibbet
Meaning: a person seen as a silly chatterbox that talks too much
Example: Nicknamed Chatty Cathy; Catherine was a flibbertigibbet who blabbed to anyone she met.

Word: Flick
Meaning: to move or hit something with a quick movement
Example: As soon as he began to flick the spicy food with his tongue; the chef realized he had added entirely too much jalapeno.

Word: Flicker
Meaning: a tiny; almost imperceptible movement
Example: There was a flicker of light from the candle on the windowsill due to the small gust of wind that moved through the house.

Word: Flier
Meaning: one that travels in the air
Example: Each flier on the plane was required to listen to a speech on safety procedures.

Word: Flight
Meaning: a group of people or creatures that fly through the air together
Example: A charter flight carrying the opposing soccer team arrived at the airport earlier today.

Word: Flimsy
Meaning: likely to bend or break under pressure; weak; shaky; flexible; or fragile
Example: Don’t give me the flimsy excuse that you were too deep asleep to hear the phone ringing.

Word: Flinch
Meaning: to cringe or jump slightly unintentionally
Example: The young boy would flinch when the bee buzzed right next to his ear causing his head to turn suddenly away from the bee.

Word: Fling
Meaning: to toss or throw something quickly
Example: His attempt to fling the fishing line across the pond ended with a hook in the bushes.

Word: Flint
Meaning: a solid rigid rock that is usually used in order to make a flame
Example: A leader from the Boy Scouts Troop 997 quickly showed the boys how to use flint in starting a fire in the wilderness.

Word: Flinty
Meaning: resembling the hardness of flint
Example: The man continued to grind his feet against the flinty ground in an attempt to get the mud off of his shoes.

Word: Flip
Meaning: to turnover or cause something to turnover suddenly
Example: Waiting on her stylist; the woman began to flip through a book in search of the perfect cut.

Word: Flippancy
Meaning: a manner that lacks respect or seriousness
Example: The unserious worker’s flippancy caused him to be fired from his job.

Word: Flippant
Meaning: lacking proper respect or seriousness
Example: The student’s flippant actions towards the teacher got him suspended from school.

Word: Float
Meaning: to stay atop of water in a resting or moving way
Example: Once the sink was filled with water; the soap would float across from one side to the other.

Word: Floccinaucinihilipilification
Meaning: approximating something as of having no value or rubbish
Example: Since there was very little education derived from comics; teachers rarely used them as reading material due to this floccinaucinihilipilification.

Word: Flocculent
Meaning: fluffy; wool-like appearance
Example: The Pomeranian was so flocculent that is resembled a fluffy cotton ball.

Word: Flock
Meaning: a group of one type of birds
Example: The flock of seagulls flew over the ocean looking for any fish it could grab for food.

Word: Flog
Meaning: to beat with a stick or whip
Example: The king continued to flog the proud whipping boy; but even the mighty strikes of the whip could not bring him to tears.

Word: Flood
Meaning: a larger amount of water than can fit into the container which causes it to spill over the sides
Example: Once the large dam broke; the flood of water quickly gushed over the sides onto the land.

Word: Flop
Meaning: to drop down in a hefty and wobbly way
Example: After a long day at work; the girls flop down on the sofa and won’t move for an hour.

Word: Floppy
Meaning: limp or loose
Example: The rabbit’s floppy ears bounced around as it hopped through the tall grass.

Word: Flora
Meaning: all of the plants located in a particular habitat
Example: Flora in the eastern region includes over 7000 types of plants.

Word: Florid
Meaning: to have a red or rosy complexion
Example: The police officer was florid after being held up by a six-year old boy with a water pistol.

Word: Flotilla
Meaning: a group of ships or boats
Example: With the flotilla stocked with supplies; the ships set sail and headed towards the New World.

Word: Flotsam
Meaning: objects or individuals that are considered to be of no worth
Example: According to the old saying; one man’s flotsam is another man’s treasure.

Word: Flounce
Meaning: to storm or stomp around in an agitated way
Example: Feeling misunderstood; the girl decided to flounce off in a huff.

Word: Flounder
Meaning: to act clumsily or confused
Example: The new swimmer had to flounder in the deep end until the lifeguard dragged him to safety.

Word: Flourish
Meaning: to develop well 
Example: The fertile ground and ample water supply will allow the crops to flourish.

Word: Flout
Meaning: to intentionally disobey (a law; rule; convention)
Example: People find themselves in trouble because they think they’re clever enough to flout the law without getting caught.

Word: Flow 
Meaning: a constant movement of something
Example: After nicking my finger with a knife while slicing vegetables; the flow of blood took a while before stopping.

Word: Flower
Meaning: the part of a plant that develops into a seed or fruit
Example: Snails like to munch on plant parts such as orchid flower spikes and buds.

Word: Flown
Meaning: travelled by air; a verb tense of fly
Example: During the riots; we were flown out of the city by helicopter.

Word: Flu
Meaning: shortened form of influenza-a highly contagious upper respiratory virus
Example: Although there are vaccines to defend against the virus; flu strains vary and can’t fully be protected against.

Word: Flubdub
Meaning: empty talk that is considered nonsense
Example: The students got in trouble for their flubdub; especially since their talk wasn’t about school work.

Word: Fluctuate
Meaning: to shift back and forth uncertainly
Example: Each day; the price of gold will fluctuate on the market.

Word: Flue
Meaning: part of the chimney that allows the smoke to exit
Example: When the house smelled of stale smoke; the homeowner realized that the flue in the chimney needed cleaning.

Word: Fluent
Meaning: able to express oneself easily
Example: The taxi driver was fluent in several languages; allowing him to help the city’s immigrants move around.

Word: Fluffy
Meaning: to be furry or soft
Example: Karen’s fluffy cat would brush up against me with her soft fur; but it would leave cat hair on my pant’s leg.

Word: Fluid situation
Meaning: conditions that are unpredictable and highly likely to change
Example: The zone is still considered a fluid situation since bombings happen daily and the environment is unstable.

Word: Fluid
Meaning: to simply pour forth or stream
Example: All of the bottles of juice are measured in fluid ounces since the volume is liquid.

Word: Fluidity
Meaning: the ability for a substance to flow easily
Example: There is fluidity between the two offices since both managers frequently move in and out of both spaces.

Word: Fluke
Meaning: a coincidence or accident that something happened
Example: Since I didn’t study or attend class on a regular basis; it was simply a fluke that I passed the exam.

Word: Flummery
Meaning: kind words that were said without really meaning them
Example: The teacher never took the teenager’s flummery as sincere since the teen usually said whatever words would get what she wanted.

Word: Flummox
Meaning: to baffle or make confusing
Example: The defense attorney’s questions were designed to flummox the prosecuting witness.

Word: Flummoxed
Meaning: very confused
Example: Since the therapist had never seen a delusional person before; she was quite flummoxed by Harry’s unusual behavior.

Word: Fluorescent 
Meaning: very bright and easy to see
Example: Attracted to the fluorescent light; a swarm of bugs congregated around the porch.

Word: Flurry
Meaning: a light falling of snow or leaves
Example: Even the kids knew that the small flurry of snow was not enough to get school called off.

Word: Flush
Meaning: smooth; even; aligned; not sticking out
Example: While making a bookcase it was important to keep the boards flush before securing the position using glue and clamps.

Word: Flustered
Meaning: distressed and/or confused 
Example: The flustered defendant began to yell at the prosecutor.

Word: Flute
Meaning: a musical instrument in the woodwind family that is played by holding it sideways and blowing air into a hole
Example: The piercing sound of the toy flute echoed louder than the boy’s other instruments.

Word: Flutter
Meaning: to wave wings back and forth quickly
Example: The hummingbirds flutter their wings so quickly that a person can barely see the wings at all.

Word: Flux
Meaning: continual change
Example: My hotel reservations are in flux because I can’t decide where I want to stay during my vacation.

Word: Fly-by-night
Meaning: unreliable or untrustworthy; particularly in business matters
Example: There are many fly-by-night providers of goods on the internet; so buying products online only from reputable websites is probably a good idea.

Word: Foci
Meaning: the centers or central parts of focus/activity
Example: The foci of the paper were the many reasons why people came to the U.S. and the ways they immigrated.

Word: Focus
Meaning: to pay attention to or study something closely
Example: If students focus during class; they should easily be able to pass their tests.

Word: Fodder
Meaning: a person or thing that is used for a specific reason
Example: The celebrity’s arrest made great fodder for the tabloid journalists.

Word: Formative
Meaning: able to affect an individual or thing
Example: The teen years are a formative time in an individual’s life because this is when one’s identity is formed.

Word: Formerly
Meaning: previously
Example: Mrs. Jones was formerly known as Ms. Smith; only changing her name after marriage.

Word: Formidable
Meaning: something that inspires fear
Example: Growing tomato crops during a severe drought proved to be formidable for one farmer.

Word: Formulate
Meaning: to create; produce; or prepare something carefully
Example: It is difficult to formulate an effective plan under pressure.

Word: Fornication 
Meaning: sexual intercourse between two people not married to each other
Example: Magistrates across the land created laws to punish fornication between unmarried lovers.

Word: Forsake
Meaning: to give up or abandon
Example: In order to be a nun; you must forsake all things which might interfere with your ability to dedicate your life to Christ.

Word: Forsooth
Meaning: the truth or indeed
Example: Forsooth; how can you expect to pass a course when you never attend class?

Word: Forswear 
Meaning: to swear off a certain behavior or a certain belief
Example: After Gail was beaten up by her boyfriend; she decided to forswear her loyalty and call the police.

Word: Forte
Meaning: an area in which an individual excels
Example: Although dancing was Ann’s forte; she never considered having a career in entertainment.

Word: Forthcoming
Meaning: impending; occurring in the future
Example: The author’s forthcoming novel will be released next month.

Word: Forthright
Meaning: direct and honest 
Example: If you are not forthright when answering the detective’s questions; you might end up in jail.

Word: Forthwith
Meaning: at this moment; now
Example: Forthwith; I need to get my wife a present because her birthday is tomorrow.

Word: Fortify
Meaning: to strengthen
Example: Storm shutters a good way to fortify your windows and prevent hurricane damage.

Word: Fortissimo
Meaning: a musical direction that means very loud
Example: The piano at fortissimo was so loud that it seemed deafening to our ears.

Word: Fortitude
Meaning: strength of mind that enables a person to face challenges with courage
Example: Even though the soldiers knew the odds were not in their favor; they had the fortitude to continue fighting.

Word: Fortnight
Meaning: a period of 14 days
Example: They wanted to have a month to prepare; but their time was cut in half; leaving them only a fortnight.

Word: Fortress
Meaning: a fort or castle
Example: The tall fortress was surrounded by a swampy moat and drawbridge that led to the fort.

Word: Fortuitous
Meaning: happening by accident or chance
Example: Mark proved to be fortuitous by selecting all six winning lotto numbers.

Word: Fortunate
Meaning: coming by good luck or favorable chance
Example: Grace was fortunate that she arrived home before the oven caught fire.

Word: Fortunately
Meaning: luckily
Example: Fortunately; I swerved out of the lane before a car came barreling down the one way.

Word: Fortune
Meaning: wealth or riches
Example: The railroad tycoon was able to build a huge fortune by expanding tracks all across the west.

Word: Forum
Meaning: a meeting or other place where people can discuss a problem or situation
Example: As a member of the forum; Tessa got to speak up about the water issues plaguing the city.

Word: Foster
Meaning: to encourage or promote something
Example: The man hoped to foster a strong work ethic in his son.

Word: Froward
Meaning: used to describe a person who are disobedient and difficult to deal with
Example: The froward child refused to listen to her parents and was disobedient most of the time.

Word: Frugal
Meaning: careful in spending money
Example: Stop being so frugal and just buy me a real gold necklace!

Word: Fruitful
Meaning: being productive in any sense; yielding benefits
Example: The extra work in the office turned out to be fruitful after all when Tyler was promoted.

Word: Fruition
Meaning: the fulfillment of a goal achieved 
Example: After many obstacles; our dream of owning a restaurant has finally come to fruition.

Word: Fruitless
Meaning: not productive; unsuccessful
Example: After a week of fruitless efforts; the rescuers gave up the search for the missing woman.

Word: Frustrate
Meaning: to disappoint or upset
Example: The toddler was unaware how he would frustrate the family cat every time he pulled its tail.

Word: Frustrated
Meaning: irritated; upset
Example: Frustrated after sitting on the phone for hours; the angry customer eventually hung up.

Word: Frustrating
Meaning: able to cause feelings of upset or annoyance
Example: The frustrating toddler cried and screamed until both of his parents were totally annoyed with him.

Word: Fuel
Meaning: to supply or power something
Example: When you realize that food is a fuel used to propel your body; you will begin to choose healthier chow.

Word: Frigid
Meaning: emotionally cold; indifferent
Example: My frigid aunt did not crack a smile when she saw my adorable newborn.

Word: Frilly
Meaning: trimmed with lots of layers; especially ruffles or lace
Example: Pulling the lace material out of her drawer; the seamstress prepared to make a frilly dress for her daughter’s first dance.

Word: Fringe
Meaning: a decorative edge made of loose threads; tassels; or twists (as seen on curtains; rugs; piece of clothing; etc)
Example: The fringe of her jeans got caught in the escalator.

Word: Frippery
Meaning: something that is showy or gaudy to the point of appearing silly or unnecessary
Example: Skipping out on the frippery; the engaged couple decided to spend their money on a new home instead of a showy wedding.

Word: Frisk
Meaning: to pass your hands over someone’s body in search of drugs or other weapons
Example: Stop and frisk policies allow police to approach pedestrians and search them without cause.

Word: Frisky
Meaning: full of playful and lively energy
Example: Our frisky little terrier is always running after something in the yard.

Word: Frisson
Meaning: an intense emotion that comes on suddenly
Example: I felt a frisson of excitement when I realized my husband was throwing me a surprise party.

Word: Fritter
Meaning: unwisely waste of time and spend frivolously; procrastinate
Example: While shopping at the mall; I tend to fritter my money on items I don’t really need.

Word: Frivolity
Meaning: that which is not necessary or meaningful
Example: The spoiled heiress is known for her frivolity and once purchased fifty identical dresses so no one could copy her look.

Word: Frivolous
Meaning: of no real worth
Example: My mother often spends her monthly pension on frivolous purchases she never uses.

Word: Frock
Meaning: a female dress or gown
Example: At my cousin’s wedding; the young flower girl wore a beautiful fluffy mint green frock.

Word: Frolic
Meaning: to move about playfully and energetically
Example: It’s fun to watch the playful goats frolic around the meadow in the afternoon.

Word: Frolicsome
Meaning: playful and fun loving
Example: The playful professor set a frolicsome tone for the entire class period.

Word: Frond
Meaning: along; thin leaf belonging to a fern or palm tree
Example: A wispy frond of dill was plucked from the plant and mixed into the dish.

Word: Frontier
Meaning: an area that has not been fully explored
Example: The science fiction program begins with a description of space as the final frontier.

Word: Frontman
Meaning: a person acting as the public face of an organization; often when lacking actual authority; or representing a covert group
Example: In addition to being the frontman for the organization internationally; he;s also being in charge of the entire business.

Word: Frost
Meaning: the thin; white layer of ice that forms in the air when the temperature is below freezing
Example: During the early morning hours; a light layer of frost covered the cool windows.

Word: Frostbite
Meaning: injury caused by parts of the body being exposed to severe cold; usually toes; fingers; ears; or nose
Example: Lost in the freezing woods; the shivering hiker was afraid that frostbite would start to overtake his body.

Word: Frosty
Meaning: a cold and unfriendly attitude
Example: Old man George is always frosty; treating everyone around him with disdain and a general crotchety attitude.

Word: Froth
Meaning: worthless or pointless ideas or discussion
Example: This conversation was filled with so much froth that even an hour later we discussed nothing important whatsoever.

Word: Froward
Meaning: used to describe a person who are disobedient and difficult to deal with
Example: The froward child refused to listen to her parents and was disobedient most of the time.

Word: Frugal
Meaning: careful in spending money
Example: Stop being so frugal and just buy me a real gold necklace!

Word: Fruitful
Meaning: being productive in any sense; yielding benefits
Example: The extra work in the office turned out to be fruitful after all when Tyler was promoted.

Word: Fruition
Meaning: the fulfillment of a goal achieved 
Example: After many obstacles; our dream of owning a restaurant has finally come to fruition.

Word: Fruitless
Meaning: not productive; unsuccessful
Example: After a week of fruitless efforts; the rescuers gave up the search for the missing woman.

Word: Frustrate
Meaning: to disappoint or upset
Example: The toddler was unaware how he would frustrate the family cat every time he pulled its tail.

Word: Frustrated
Meaning: irritated; upset
Example: Frustrated after sitting on the phone for hours; the angry customer eventually hung up.

Word: Frustrating
Meaning: able to cause feelings of upset or annoyance
Example: The frustrating toddler cried and screamed until both of his parents were totally annoyed with him.

Word: Fuel
Meaning: to supply or power something
Example: When you realize that food is a fuel used to propel your body; you will begin to choose healthier chow.

Word: Fugacious
Meaning: short-lived; fading quickly; tending to disappear
Example: The preacher held forth about the fugacious nature of life; and how it ends so quickly.

Word: Fugitive
Meaning: an individual who is fleeing incarceration or a threatening situation
Example: The fugitive is being chased by a multi-state task force.

Word: Fugue
Meaning: piece of music
Example: Composing the fugue was easy for the singer once he had the melody down.

Word: Fulcrum
Meaning: the thing or individual upon which everything depends
Example: The factory is the fulcrum of our town because most of our citizens work there.

Word: Fulfill
Meaning: to carry out
Example: The salesman was dismissed because he did not fulfill the required quota.

Word: Fulfilment
Meaning: satisfaction or happiness derived from the achievement of something important to oneself
Example: Many people experience a sense of fulfillment when they finally achieve their life’s dream; or even when they take a step towards it.

Word: Fuliginous
Meaning: sooty; smoky
Example: Smog has caused many of the high-rises in the city to be fuliginous.

Word: Full disclosure
Meaning: principle under which all material facts regarding a case or event must be revealed or released
Example: Because of full disclosure policy; the doctor had to inform the patient of all of the medicine’s risks.

Word: Full-fledged
Meaning: fully developed
Example: My high school was putting on a full-fledged musical theater production.

Word: Full-scale
Meaning: as complete or all-inclusive as possible
Example: It will be hard to get a full-scale experience of the theme park if you’re only there for one day.

Word: Full
Meaning: containing as much as something is capable of holding having no leftover space
Example: The four year old wanted to get a refill for his drink; but since the cup was full there was no need to.

Word: Fulminate
Meaning: to complain angrily or loudly
Example: The disgruntled customer continued to fulminate over a price difference.

Word: Fulsome
Meaning: extreme flattering to the point of excess
Example: The stranger’s fulsome attention put me on edge.

Word: Fumble
Meaning: to mishandle or let something slip accidentally from the hands
Example: When the rookie football player entered the field; it would only be a matter of time before he would fumble the ball which was picked up by the opposing team.

Word: Fume
Meaning: the build up of anger that generally results in a negative reaction
Example: Molly started to fume and felt the urge to punch something when she found out her boyfriend was cheating on her.

Word: Fumigate
Meaning: to cleanse or sterilize an area using a gas or vapor substance
Example: An infestation of roaches caused a hired exterminator to demand everyone to leave the house since he would fumigate it with a hazy material.

Word: Fun
Meaning: enjoying or entertaining
Example: Going to the exciting party was the most fun I’ve had in ages.

Word: Functional
Meaning: useful; practical 
Example: The expensive dress was out of the accountant’s budget; but she convinced herself it was functional and could be worn to other events.

Word: Functionary
Meaning: a public servant who does specific tasks for his or her job
Example: Training is mandatory for any functionary to complete the duties of his or her job.

Word: Fund
Meaning: to supply money to someone or something for a certain reason
Example: I needed to fund my checking account with enough money to cover the three checks I wrote today.

Word: Fundamental
Meaning: basic or essential part
Example: Dribbling is a fundamental part of basketball.

Word: Fundamentalism
Meaning: a strict organization that follows their spiritual beliefs
Example: Their fundamentalism required that the followers attend church daily or face severe consequences.

Word: Funeral
Meaning: a ceremony held by family members to honor and bid farewell to the deceased
Example: We have to hold a funeral for my Uncle; who died a few days ago; but I don’t have any black clothes to wear to it.

Word: Funereal
Meaning: to feel sorrowful or mournful
Example: After the death of a loved one; the funereal feelings during the funeral could be seen by the tears in everyone’s eyes.

Word: Fungi
Meaning: a type of organism that is mostly known for including mushrooms
Example: Analyzing the fungi in science class allowed the students to determine that the plants all produced spores and fed on natural material.

Word: Fungible
Meaning: capable of being switched for something of equal value
Example: On the diet plan; the two vegetables are fungible so you can eat either one without changing your calorie count.

Word: Funny
Meaning: humorous; amusing
Example: Live comedy shows are funny; but I prefer laughing at sitcoms from my couch.

Word: Fur
Meaning: the outer coat of fuzz on an animal
Example: My dog’s fur needed brushing because it was so matted down from him rolling in the mud.

Word: Furious
Meaning: extremely angry
Example: The prospective cadet was furious with himself for oversleeping and disqualifying himself from the academy.

Word: Furlough
Meaning: a vacation or period of absence from work
Example: To save money; the county will give teachers a two-day furlough this year.

Word: Furnace
Meaning: a piece of equipment used to heat an area in a house or building
Example: A broken furnace proved to be an annoyance for the family when there was no heat in the house until it was fixed.

Word: Furnish
Meaning: to provide something to someone
Example: The advertisement stated that the owners would furnish the apartment with tables; chairs; beds and a couch.

Word: Furniture
Meaning: useable furnishings in a house or building
Example: I enjoy refurbishing furniture by buying worn tables; chairs and desks and cleaning them up to become beautiful pieces.

Word: Furor
Meaning: a situation that angers and upsets many people
Example: Amid accusations of fraud; there was a public furor when the politician was arrested.

Word: Furore
Meaning: great emotion (either positive or negative) shown by a crowd of people
Example: Furore from the protestors outside could be heard from the president and the remaining workers inside the company.

Word: Furrow
Meaning: a thin wrinkle or line on an individual’s face 
Example: If you observe my father while he’s in a thoughtful mood; you’ll see a furrow above his eyes.

Word: Furrowed
Meaning: crumpled or to make wrinkles
Example: The angry toddler furrowed his face which made it obvious to see that he was very upset at his mother.

Word: Furry
Meaning: the state of having fur or the softness of fur
Example: A bear cub is an extremely furry creature; likely soft to the touch; but you should avoid doing that if you don’t want to get mauled by its mother.

Word: Furtherance
Meaning: a continuance usually by assisting something
Example: The furtherance in the study of the document showed that it was a fake which was not noticed before by the researchers.

Word: Furthermore
Meaning: additionally; besides
Example: Texting while driving is dangerous; and furthermore; it is also illegal.

Word: Furtive
Meaning: marked by quiet; caution; and secrecy
Example: Crissy walked outside in a furtive manner so that her parents would not see her.

Word: Fury
Meaning: intense anger or rage
Example: With all of its fury; the volcano erupted over the mountainside and covered all life with its ferocity.

Word: Fuse
Meaning: to combine into one thing
Example: In the cooking contest; I will fuse Mexican and French recipes to make a dish I will refer to as Frexican.

Word: Fuselage
Meaning: an aircraft’s center body section
Example: The engines were positioned up under the aircraft’s fuselage as they need to be centered.

Word: Fusillade
Meaning: a huge quantity of firings that occur rapidly
Example: During the police interrogation; I felt as though the detectives attacked me with a fusillade of questions.

Word: Fusion
Meaning: a joining or blending of two things into a single item
Example: The actor worked so hard to become the character that it seemed the fusion of their personalities might be permanent.

Word: Fuss
Meaning: to show excessive concern about something
Example: My worrisome mother loves to fuss over my hair every time I wake up with wild locks.

Word: Fussy
Meaning: hard to please
Example: Refusing to be soothed; the fussy baby whined and cried all night long.

Word: Fustian
Meaning: heavy cloth woven from cotton
Example: Settlers used fustian to weave their clothes since it was a tough fabric that held up well.

Word: Fustigate
Meaning: to criticize someone harshly
Example: The abusive husband tends to fustigate his wife; beating her down emotionally with his cruel name-calling.

Word: Fusty
Meaning: smelling stale; stuffy; or damp
Example: The fusty cupboard smelled stale and damp after years of not being opened.

Word: Futile
Meaning: incapable of producing any results
Example: Although the dog chewed and chewed on his leash; his efforts to break free were futile.

Word: Future
Meaning: a period of time that is yet to come
Example: Our future vacation is planned for May of next year.

Word: Futuristic
Meaning: something having to do with the future
Example: A futuristic model car was on display in the museum; representing what transportation might look like in 50 years.

Word: Futurity
Meaning: the future
Example: Anxious thoughts of futurity caused the worrier to lose hope in the present.

Word: Futz
Meaning: to waste time or idly deal with a task
Example: The student knew that she should focus on her studies but decided to futz around for most of the afternoon.

Word: Fuzz
Meaning: a short; frizzy mass of fiber or hair
Example: The towel fuzz rubbed off onto my usually silky clothing while in the wash.

Word: Gabble
Meaning: rapid and generally unintelligible speech
Example: The man’s hastily spoken words came out as little more than a gabble to the ears of both me and my spouse.

Word: Gadfly
Meaning: an annoying person who is a nuisance by constantly criticizing others
Example: The television commentator is a gadfly whose main purpose on the show is to criticize others.

Word: Gadget
Meaning: useful mechanical object or tool
Example: Every time I shop for a birthday present for a family member; I tend to buy a new unique kitchen gadget for myself.

Word: Gaffe
Meaning: an obvious error or mistake
Example: Because of the quarterback’s gaffe; our team lost the big game.

Word: Gag
Meaning: an obstructive object put over or in a person’s mouth to stop them from making noise
Example: A strip of cloth is often used as a gag to keep restrained prisoners from making any noise or calling for help.

Word: Gaggle
Meaning: a disorderly and noisy group of people
Example: The gaggle of middle school students exited the school with excited chatter and yelling; a sure sign of their joy for the end of the school day.

Word: Gaiety
Meaning: celebration; partying
Example: The gaiety is in honor of the principal’s retirement.

Word: Gain
Meaning: to use one’s efforts to get or secure something
Example: By helping out in his dad’s donut shop; Josh was able to gain work experience while still in school.

Word: Gainful
Meaning: profitable; able to make money
Example: Allen has a part-time job; but is actively looking for more gainful employment.

Word: Gainsay
Meaning: to contradict or deny
Example: Since Jack told the truth on the witness stand; no one was able to gainsay his statement.

Word: Gait
Meaning: manner of walking
Example: As he strode through the hallway; everyone could tell by his gait that he was wealthy.

Word: Galactic
Meaning: relating to a system of millions or billions of stars in the solar system
Example: Our galaxy is the Milky Way and our closest galactic neighbor is the star system Andromeda.

Word: Galaxy
Meaning: a group of many stars; along with gas; dust; and dark matter
Example: Our galaxy; the Milky Way; is made up of the sun; planets; asteroids; millions of stars; and other space junk.

Word: Gale
Meaning: a very strong wind
Example: My favorite hat was blown off my head by the gale as I ran from into the house from my car.

Word: Gall
Meaning: daring conduct
Example: After Paul made the mistake; he had the gall to blame me for his error.

Word: Gallant
Meaning: fearless and daring
Example: Despite being outnumbered the gallant soldiers were eager for battle.

Word: Gallery
Meaning: a room or a building used for showing works of art for sale
Example: There is no lack of people who attracted to what may be considered unusual art shown in a gallery.

Word: Gallimaufry
Meaning: a confused mess of things
Example: The excuses of the young children was a gallimaufry of nonsense; each of them saying something different that made no sense.

Word: Galling
Meaning: triggering annoyance or anger
Example: The fraud allegation was galling and really upset the honest minister.

Word: Gallivanting
Meaning: to roam from place to place for pleasure or excitement
Example: The mischievous wanderer was gallivanting around town in search of something to entertain himself; paying no heed to those around him.

Word: Gallon
Meaning: a fluid measurement that equates to sixteen pints
Example: The mother knew she would need to buy a gallon of milk in order for her family of four to have enough milk for the week.

Word: Gallop
Meaning: when a horse runs at full speed
Example: The startled horse broke into a swift gallop and darted through the trees.

Word: Gallows
Meaning: a construction frame on which people are hanged for their crimes 
Example: The gallows is a structure that was once used to put people to death by hanging.

Word: Galore
Meaning: in a huge amount
Example: Because there is food galore at the party; I know I will not go hungry.

Word: Galvanize
Meaning: to inspire people to work towards change
Example: Do you think the child’s death will galvanize town residents to the point they will stand up to drug dealers?

Word: Gambit
Meaning: something done or said in order to gain a benefit or advantage
Example: The general’s gambit did not pay off; and soon we were surrounded by enemy soldiers.

Word: Gamble
Meaning: to play a game against odds for a chance at winning money
Example: At the casino; players gamble by placing coins into slot machines for the chance of winning a jackpot prize.

Word: Gamble
Meaning: a bet or wager on an event
Example: Some people like to gamble on the lottery even though the odds are against them.

Word: Gambol
Meaning: jump or run in a playful manner
Example: Because of the rain; students are unable to gambol on the playground during recess.

Word: Game-Changer
Meaning: an event or idea that dramatically changes the course or process of something
Example: The invention of the tank was a major game-changer for the face of war; which had relied on cavalry before troops were mechanized.

Word: Gamete
Meaning: a developed sex cell that has only one set of unpaired chromosomes
Example: During sexual procreation a gamete merges with another gamete to produce a fertilized egg.

Word: Gamut
Meaning: an entire range
Example: The company has a gamut of products ranging from infant toys to electrical wall outlets.

Word: Gangrene
Meaning: the rot and decay of an area of the body that suffered from infection or a wound that usually needed to be amputated
Example: The injured soldier’s wound became infected until gangrene set in; and the doctor’s were forced to cut off the dead tissue.

Word: Gap
Meaning: a space in between two things
Example: The gap between the seat and the center console was just wide enough for the keys to fall down in.

Word: Gape
Meaning: to stare at someone with your mouth wide open
Example: The men are sure to gape when they see Teresa in her tiny shorts.

Word: Garage
Meaning: a building attached to a house where cars are kept
Example: The homeowners added on a two-car garage that was just big enough to hold both of their vehicles.

Word: Garble
Meaning: to alter the sound or meaning of something
Example: The drunk man will often garble his words to the point that they are not understandable.

Word: Garden
Meaning: a piece of ground; often near a house; used for growing flowers; fruit; or vegetables
Example: The chef had a large herb garden in his backyard so that he always had fresh spices available.

Word: Gargantuan
Meaning: of tremendous size
Example: It took five men to move the gargantuan bedframe into the house.

Word: Gargoyle
Meaning: an unusual and unpleasant-looking animal or human shape that protrudes from a building’s roof
Example: Many children are frightened by the stone gargoyle that sits on top of the roof of the building.

Word: Garish
Meaning: something that is elaborate; showy; striking and in bad taste
Example: Because she likes showing off her money; my wealthy aunt is known for wearing garish jewelry to casual events.

Word: Garment
Meaning: single item of clothing
Example: The saleswoman are very knowledgeable while helping me find the right garment to wear at my cousin’s wedding.

Word: Garner 
Meaning: to collect or accumulate
Example: The teacher allowed us to put up posters to garner interest in our club fundraiser.

Word: Garnish
Meaning: to enhance or improve; especially food in a decorative way
Example: Grated cheese and fancy pieces of tomato were used to garnish the salad bowl.

Word: Garrison
Meaning: a base or camp used by armed forces
Example: Once the troops make it to the garrison they will rest for the night.

Word: Garrulous
Meaning: overly talkative and chatty; mostly about unimportant things
Example: "Desperate for peace and quiet; Amanda told the garrulous man sitting next to her to ""Shut up!"""

Word: Gas
Meaning: a fluid substance that is air like and that can expand to fill any space
Example: The balloons were filled with gas so that they could float in the party hall.

Word: Gasconade
Meaning: to make particularly showy gestures to brag about an accomplishment
Example: The football player jumped on the cafeteria table and started to gasconade about his speed and ability to catch impossible throws.

Word: Gaseous
Meaning: related to or existing as gas
Example: The broken machine is leaking fuel; letting off a gaseous odor into the air.

Word: Gash
Meaning: a deep cut
Example: My brother Tim needed to have an operation to close a large gash on his arm.

Word: Gaslight
Meaning: to use psychological manipulation to sow seeds of doubt in a person’s mind and make them question their own sanity
Example: The psychopath will gaslight and tell blatant lies in an attempt to throw you off balance.

Word: Gasp
Meaning: a short; sudden intake of breath
Example: Seeing her father standing at the arrival gate; the soldier’s daughter let out a deep gasp.

Word: Gatekeeper
Meaning: a person or thing that controls access to something
Example: Motioning for the gatekeeper to let him in; the funeral director prepared to take the casket to the cemetery.

Word: Gauche
Meaning: lacking class or manners; awkward; tactless
Example: His gauche table manners make me cringe; especially when he tries to talk with his mouth full.

Word: Gaudy
Meaning: so showy that it is unattractive
Example: When Crystal returned from the nail salon; she showed me her gaudy nails that were painted bright orange.

Word: Gauge
Meaning: to measure a specific thing
Example: The poll is used to gauge the public’s opinion on the president.

Word: Gaunt
Meaning: extremely skinny; typically because of illness or starvation
Example: After being held in a dark basement for three months; the prisoner was gaunt and weak.

Word: Gauntlet 
Meaning: a sequence of demanding events	
Example: During boot camp; soldiers were challenged by a five-mile gauntlet.

Word: Gauze
Meaning: a thin and transparent fabric used for clothing; curtains; as well as medical purposes
Example: With no bandage available; the hiker had to use some old gauze from a first-aid kit to cover his wound.

Word: Gawk
Meaning: to stare stupidly
Example: People always gawk at us because we have seven children in our family.

Word: Gawky
Meaning: lacking grace in movement or posture
Example: He's intelligent; but gawky and socially inept; unable to communicate with anyone other than his family.

Word: Gay
Meaning: content and joyful
Example: Playing in the field on their day off of school; the young gay children giggled as they were cartwheeling and jumping around.

Word: Gaze
Meaning: to stare off; fixing your eyes on something
Example: Natalie stood on her hotel balcony; feeling thankful that she could gaze out at the sunset from such an amazing view.

Word: Gear
Meaning: apparel or equipment used for a certain purpose
Example: The news reported how heavy the police officers gear is and how it may slow them down when chasing suspects.

Word: Gee
Meaning: an expression used to show surprise or excitement
Example: “Oh; gee!” shouted Leah as she walked into the extremely messy house.

Word: Gelatinous
Meaning: having a consistency that is like jiggly like jelly
Example: A large heap of gelatinous noodles jiggled on the girl’s plate as she walked back to her table.

Word: Gelid
Meaning: extremely cold or icy
Example: The swimmer immediately regretted wading into the gelid waters; as the coldness of the lake was almost unbearable.

Word: Gem
Meaning: something that is prized because of its worth
Example: The building is a gem and is expected to get city landmark designation.

Word: Gene
Meaning: genes determine physical traits (how we look); such as hair type; hair and eye color; freckles; height; etc. genes are part of the cell - you inherent genes from your parents. 
Example: No one wants to inherit the balding gene; but it is a normal part of aging.

Word: Genealogy
Meaning: the history that explains how family members are related
Example: When Glen studied his family’s genealogy; he learned his ancestors came from Germany.

Word: General
Meaning: concerning a very broad array of things; or referring to something in a vague sense
Example: The general public includes everyone in your society; from the lowest tier to the absolute wealthiest.

Word: Generality
Meaning: an offhand comment not backed up by facts
Example: The presidential candidate made a generality about the growing dangers of global warming without offering any statistics.

Word: Generalize
Meaning: to make a broad statement based on limited facts
Example: I told Debra not to generalize by stating that all Chinese businesses are corrupt just because she had a bad experience with one of them.

Word: Generally speaking
Meaning: usually true; correct in most cases but not all
Example: Generally speaking; we don’t celebrate holidays; but we may go trick-or-treating this year.

Word: Generally
Meaning: usually; In most cases
Example: Generally; we do not accept checks; but we will make an exception.

Word: Generate
Meaning: to create or produce something
Example: The mayor promised to generate new jobs in the area; but none have been created as of yet.

Word: Generation
Meaning: a generation is all the people in a group or country who are of a similar age
Example: This generation of students doesn’t seem to care about school as much as their parents.

Word: Generation
Meaning: the average amount of time needed for children to grow up and have children of their own
Example: It’s not uncommon to learn that some diseases and health conditions can carry from one generation to the next.

Word: Generic
Meaning: describing something that is plain; uniform; or ordinary and typically forgettable
Example: The guards at the gate were rather generic today; being so plain that I can’t even remember what they looked like.

Word: Generosity
Meaning: the characteristic of being charitable and kind
Example: Because of your generosity; a deserving student can go to college.

Word: Generous
Meaning: displaying a willingness to give more than is expected
Example: The generous old woman decided to donate twenty five dollars to our organization even though we only asked for ten.

Word: Genesis
Meaning: the point at which something comes into existence; the beginning
Example: Genesis is the first chapter of the Bible’s Old Testament.

Word: Genetics
Meaning: the area of biology that focuses on the passing of genetic traits
Example: When Tammy studied genetics in class; she learned her eye color differed from her parents because of recessive genes.

Word: Genial
Meaning: warm and welcoming 
Example: Santa Claus is such a genial man that children love to approach him.

Word: Genie
Meaning: a magic person that lives in a lamp and grants wishes to the person who calls on it
Example: The genie was trapped in the magic lamp for thousands of years before anyone rubbed the side.

Word: Genocide
Meaning: the purposeful murder of individuals of a particular people
Example: Armed troops are being sent to end the dictator’s genocide that has resulted in the deaths of over twenty thousand people.

Word: Genome
Meaning: the complete set of genetic material within an organism
Example: Each species on Earth has a different genome; with different DNA and genetic material to set them apart from other species.

Word: Genotype
Meaning: the genetic makeup of a particular organism or group of organisms
Example: If both of your parents have dark hair; you likely won’t have the genotype to be a blonde.

Word: Genre
Meaning: a particular type of music; writing; film; or art
Example: Though he did not normally enjoy movies in the horror genre; he found the trailer quite compelling.

Word: Genteel
Meaning: polite and well-mannered
Example: At the formal dinner; you are expected to behave in a genteel manner.

Word: Gentility
Meaning: class or a good upbringing
Example: Ed’s lack of gentility was evident when he started to drink the water in his fingerbowl.

Word: Gently
Meaning: softly or with light action
Example: Stroking the puppy gently; the woman tried to make him feel more at ease.

Word: Gentry
Meaning: a term used mainly in the past to refer to members of society’s upper class
Example: The gentry travelled in carriages while the poor people walked or rode on rickety wagons.

Word: Genuflect 
Meaning: to show great respect or devotion
Example: Faithful Catholics genuflect to the pope.

Word: Genuine
Meaning: real; authentic; and exactly as it appears
Example: When the bride took her engagement ring to be reset she was shocked to discover that her diamond was not genuine but cubic zirconia.

Word: Genus
Meaning: a genus is a class or group of something; usually used in biology to classify similar animals of different species
Example: Because it represents the group; the genus is the first part of an animal’s scientific name.

Word: Geocaching
Meaning: an outdoor game in which people hunt for hidden items and locate them using GPS
Example: Our history teacher offered extra credit to those who would use their phones’ GPS systems to go geocaching for historical sites.

Word: Geocentric
Meaning: describes something that considers the earth its center
Example: For years; people believed in a geocentric model in which the earth is at the center of the universe.

Word: Geography
Meaning: the nature and relative arrangement of places and physical features 
Example: Jessica’s knowledge of geography was so terrible that she thought China was next to Mexico.

Word: Geology
Meaning: that portion of science associated with rocks and their relevance in the history of an area or planet
Example: In the study of geology; rocks are placed into distinct categories according to certain characteristics.

Word: Geothermal
Meaning: relating to the internal heat of the earth
Example: Geothermal energy is created deep down in the earth and can provide heating and cooling for your home.

Word: Germ
Meaning: the onset of an idea that can turn into something big and important
Example: Most successful movies and novels start with a germ of an idea to become hits with the audience.

Word: Germane
Meaning: relating to a subject in an appropriate way
Example: Since we were running out of time; our professor asked us to limit our questions to those germane to today’s lecture.

Word: Germinate
Meaning: to mature or develop
Example: Without sunlight; the seeds will not germinate.

Word: Gerrymander
Meaning: to separate an entity like a region or state into political divisions so that one party has an unjust advantage
Example: The politician hoped to gerrymander the western states so his party could control electoral regions.

Word: Gestalt 
Meaning: an entity viewed as more than a collection of its parts
Example: In the field of psychology; gestalt is seen as a combined entity or whole.

Word: Gestapo
Meaning: the secret police of Nazi Germany that was organized during 1933
Example: In 1933; Adolf Hitler became chancellor of Germany and the Gestapo were established as a secret police force.

Word: Gesticulate
Meaning: to express a thought using gestures
Example: When Jason got angry; he started to gesticulate his feelings with his hands.

Word: Gesture 
Meaning: a movement made to express a point
Example: I was offended by the gesture the man made with his middle finger.

Word: Get over
Meaning: to recover from an unpleasant or unhappy experience
Example: The heartbroken woman cried day and night; fearing that she would never get over such a bad divorce.

Word: Getaway
Meaning: a quick escape or departure
Example: Driving the getaway car; the third masked man helped the other robbers make a quick escape.

Word: Getup
Meaning: an outfit or costume
Example: Dressed in an outrageous getup; the Halloween party goer knew he would win the best costume award.

Word: Gewgaw
Meaning: something that is flashy or showy but ultimately useless or pointless
Example: If you ask me; an expensive sports car is little more than a gewgaw; since it doesn’t do anything that a regular car doesn’t do with just a little less style.

Word: Geyser
Meaning: a hole in the ground (natural spring) from which hot water and steam come out
Example: Hiking up to the geyser; the group of tourists were amazed by how high the spring water shot into the air.

Word: Ghastly 
Meaning: extremely awful
Example: There is no way I can swallow the ghastly medicine.

Word: Ghetto
Meaning: an area in the city designated for imprisoning the Jewish people during World War II before being transported to a concentration camp
Example: Many Jewish people died in their ghetto due to living in small quarters of their hometown and being exposed to disease.

Word: Ghoul
Meaning: an evil spirit or undead creature that is believed to feed on corpses
Example: The ghoul is a fictional undead creature that is usually the corpse of some dead person that wants to feed on the living.

Word: Ghoulish
Meaning: unusually interested in death or destruction
Example: The ghoulish individual had a sick fascination with death; which may have been what spurred him to commit those heinous crimes.

Word: Gibberish
Meaning: babble or nonsense words or utterances
Example: As the Martians landed on Earth; the people who encountered them said they couldn’t understand their gibberish when they spoke.

Word: Gibbet
Meaning: a wooden structure used for executing criminals by hanging them
Example: The spy was convicted for treason and hanged on a gibbet.

Word: Gibbous
Meaning: a moon phase in which the illuminated part is greater than a semi-circle but not all the way full
Example: The large; gibbous moon illuminated the night sky with only a small sliver missing.

Word: Gibe
Meaning: an insulting comment
Example: Jack never failed to make a gibe about his ex-boss who married his ex-wife.

Word: Giddy
Meaning: displaying immense happiness
Example: An overindulgence in alcohol made Edith feel giddy enough to dance on the dinner table.

Word: Gift
Meaning: a present or some other thing given to someone as an act of kindness
Example: When arriving at the party; the children each gave a wrapped gift to the birthday boy.

Word: Gifted
Meaning: having a special talent or ability
Example: From an early age; the gifted child was able to sing with perfect pitch.

Word: Gigantic
Meaning: really big in size
Example: The gigantic elephant is the largest land animal on earth.

Word: Gigantic
Meaning: very large in size
Example: The people were driven into despair when a gigantic tornado swept through their small town destroying many homes.

Word: Giggle
Meaning: a gentle quiet laugh
Example: While watching the premiere of a new comedy show I started with a smirk then a giggle; then a full out laugh.

Word: Gild
Meaning: to make a light cover of gold or fake gold over something
Example: Jewelers have a tendency to gild cheaper rings; necklaces and bracelets with the least amount of authentic gold just so they can call it gold jewelry.

Word: Gimcrack
Meaning: something that looks nice but is of poor quality or make
Example: The seemingly fancy dress that my sister bought is little more than a gimcrack; looking nice but being of rather low quality.

Word: Gimmick
Meaning: a new concept or plan which gets noticed but really is worthless
Example: The salesman’s gimmick was to lure teenagers into purchasing the new cell phone for its secret messaging system; but this feature really didn’t work.

Word: Gingerly
Meaning: gently
Example: After falling from the horse; he gingerly tried to stand on his throbbing foot; and found that he couldn’t.

Word: Girth
Meaning: the distance measured around an object
Example: According to the records; the girth of Sylvia’s waist was the smallest in the state at only eighteen inches.

Word: Gist
Meaning: the main idea or point
Example: Because Ken told his story in a confusing way; I could not get the gist of it.

Word: Given
Meaning: having been provided or supplied with something
Example: The boy was given a used car as a 16th birthday present.

Word: Glacier
Meaning: a sizable piece of ice that travels in a downward path over a broad land area 
Example: The glaciologist spent thirty years studying the path of the slow-moving glacier.

Word: Glad
Meaning: pleased; delighted in a thankful way
Example: Although most people hate the wet weather; the local famers are always glad when it rains.

Word: Glamorous
Meaning: stylishly fashionable
Example: Dressed in a mink coat and long satin gown; the glamorous celebrity strutted down the red carpet.

Word: Glance
Meaning: to look briefly at something
Example: The driver gave a glance back as he moved into the passing lane.

Word: Glare
Meaning: A fierce and angry stare
Example: Giving off a killer stare; the icy inmate refused to let up his glare.

Word: Glaring
Meaning: frowning; looking angrily
Example: Glaring out at the crowd; the angry police officer ordered the protesters to leave immediately.

Word: Glasnost
Meaning: the policy of providing more consultative and open information as a government
Example: Many people prefer the glasnost policy in their government; because they do not like the idea of the government hiding things from them.

Word: Gleam
Meaning: to shine brightly
Example: After they were waxed; the building’s floors seemed to gleam with brightness.

Word: Glean
Meaning: to gather information in pieces 
Example: From several library resources; Sara was able to glean enough information to write her research paper.

Word: Glee
Meaning: intense happiness or joy
Example: Smiling with glee; the child unwrapped his birthday gift.

Word: Gleeful
Meaning: delighted and joyful
Example: Laughs could be heard from outside their daughter’s bedroom door as she and her gleeful friends were having a slumber party.

Word: Glib
Meaning: speaking easily but without thinking carefully; speaking in a smooth; easy way that is insincere
Example: How could he have been so glib about such a traumatic event?

Word: Glibly
Meaning: performed or said without any consideration or effort
Example: Without thinking about her future; the secretary glibly contradicted her boss.

Word: Glibness
Meaning: talk that is superficial and insincere
Example: In a world of glibness and superficiality; the man’s humbleness is a rarity.

Word: Glide
Meaning: to slide across a surface smoothly
Example: As she began to glide on the ice; the skater moved with an air of gracefulness that was unmatched by others in the arena.

Word: Glimmer of hope
Meaning: a small chance or sign that things might turn around for the better
Example: We thought that our dog had died after being run over; but a glimmer of hope emerged when a vet came on the scene.

Word: Glimmer
Meaning: a faint or flickering piece of something
Example: Even after several back to back losses; the boxer still had a glimmer of hope.

Word: Glimpse
Meaning: a brief look
Example: Using my long distance lens; I was able to catch a glimpse of the celebrity.

Word: Glint
Meaning: a small flash of light reflected off of a surface
Example: Sun glint reflections caught the attention of those traveling across the desert in a caravan.

Word: Glisten
Meaning: to shine
Example: Rays began to glisten off the Hudson Bay as the morning sun rose over the water.

Word: Glistening
Meaning: shining
Example: Drooling from the stadium; the fan couldn’t help but notice the player’s shiny muscles glistening with sweat.

Word: Glitch
Meaning: a sudden malfunction
Example: A glitch in the system caused all of the computers to reboot automatically.

Word: Glitter
Meaning: tiny pieces of reflective material that are usually used for decoration
Example: Glitter lined the girl’s fancy prom dress to help it sparkle in the light.

Word: Gloaming
Meaning: dusk; twilight
Example: The thin crescent moon provided a hint of light in the night’s sky in the gloaming.

Word: Gloat
Meaning: to take satisfaction in something that makes another person seem inferior
Example: If you are the winner of a contest; you should not gloat and make your competitors feel inferior.

Word: Global
Meaning: worldwide
Example: A global outbreak of influenza wiped out millions of people from countries around the world.

Word: Globalization
Meaning: the process by which businesses begin operating worldwide
Example: The company can’t achieve globalization if there is no interest for their product in Europe or China.

Word: Gloom
Meaning: poorly lit and hard to see through
Example: Tommy stumbled through the gloom in his dark room and nearly tripped over his shoes.

Word: Gloomy
Meaning: dim; dismal
Example: Because the sky looked gloomy; I took an umbrella to work.

Word: Glorious
Meaning: magnificent; wonderful
Example: Kara stared up at the glorious sunset; amazed by how beautiful the setting sun looked over the mountains.

Word: Glory
Meaning: honor; fame and pride
Example: The humble champion refused to accept all of the glory and gave credit to his trainer.

Word: Glossary
Meaning: a list that gives definitions of the tough or unusual words found inside book
Example: In the back of the chef guide there was a glossary that explained some of the unique cooking terms.

Word: Glossy
Meaning: something that is superficially attractive
Example: That sports car is glossy and all; but a far less expensive car could still let you get around; so why did you buy it?

Word:  Glower
Meaning: to display a hostile stare on one’s face
Example: The police officers turned to glower at the suspect who had killed one of their own.

Word: Glum
Meaning: looking or feeling unhappy; bummed out
Example: The teenager used to have many friends; but now his negative and glum attitude made people hesitant to be around him.

Word: Glut
Meaning: an amount in excess of what is normal or necessary
Example: Since I love dramatic films; I can’t wait for the glut of superhero films to disappear.

Word: Glutinous
Meaning: sticky or gooey
Example: Wading through glutinous mud caused the hunters to get bogged down and their boots stuck.

Word: Gluttony 
Meaning: drinking or eating excessively 
Example: During the holidays; I usually give in to gluttony and gain at least ten pounds.

Word: Gnarled
Meaning: deformed or knotted 
Example: The rheumatoid arthritis had caused the once talented pianist’s fingers to become gnarled.

Word: Gnash
Meaning: grind (one's teeth) together; typically as a sign of anger
Example: The caged tigers gnash their teeth and lunge at the bars.

Word: Gnaw
Meaning: to chew on something with persistence
Example: The dog started to gnaw on his leash.

Word: Gnome
Meaning: a tiny; make-believe creature that resembles an old man who has a beard and a pointed hat and are seen commonly as terra-cotta figures in gardens
Example: Gretta was interested in the tiny little garden gnome whose eyes seemed to follow her through the rows of flowers.

Word: Go
Meaning: to move or travel from one place to another
Example: Every time I go to the store; I drive past a fruit stand with yummy grapes.

Word: Goad
Meaning: provoke or annoy (someone) so as to stimulate some action or reaction
Example: During lunch in the cafeteria today; my rival tried to goad me into a fight so I would get suspended from school.

Word: Goal
Meaning: an aim or target that one wants to reach
Example: The students set a goal to read at least 100 books by the end of the school year.

Word: Gobbledygook
Meaning: complicated or technical language that is difficult to understand
Example: My geometry teacher was speaking English; but it was all gobbledygook to me.

Word: Gobsmacked
Meaning: astonished or utterly surprised
Example: I was left gobsmacked when I say my large Mastiff sleeping on the couch in the living room; rendering the furniture one giant hairy mess.

Word: Godsend
Meaning: a person or thing that serves as a blessing or benefit
Example: Zell is such a godsend to Beth’s life because he always supports and encourages her to do her best.

Word: Godspeed
Meaning: good tidings or good news
Example: During the holidays; we send greeting cards wishing people Godspeed.

Word: Goer
Meaning: a person who goes to a place or attends an event; especially on a regular basis
Example: As an avid beachgoer; Janine tries to visit a few new shores every summer.

Word: Gold
Meaning: a shiny; yellow colored precious metal that is used to make coins; jewelry; and other valuable items
Example: The explorers searched for gold; but never found any precious metal in the colonies.

Word: Gong
Meaning: a large; flat piece of metal that is circular and lets out a loud tone when struck with a hammer
Example: A suspended gong is an Asian musical instrument that is played with a larger and softer hammer.

Word: Good
Meaning: respectable and noble; supplies and resources
Example: When the patient’s illness was cured; she realized she had a good doctor and nurse taking care of her.

Word: Goodies
Meaning: things that are pleasing and wanted especially tasty food
Example: Each year; children dress up in costume and go door-to-door getting goodies on Halloween.

Word: Goodly
Meaning: large in size or amount
Example: The nearest grocery store is a goodly distance away from our farm; so the walk there takes a while.

Word: Gooey
Meaning: soft; sticky and viscous
Example: Because honey is a gooey substance; it takes a great deal of work to remove it from a jar.

Word: Goop
Meaning: a semi-liquid substance that is sticky and gooey
Example: The mother rubbed the sticky goop from her toddler’s eye while he was suffering from a cold.

Word: Goose
Meaning: a silly or goofy person
Example: Trey is known for being a silly goose who always tries to make people laugh and giggle.

Word: Goosebumps
Meaning: bumps on the skin from fear; cold; or extreme happiness
Example: She got goosebumps whenever her crush whispered in her ear.

Word: Gore
Meaning: blood that is from an injured person
Example: The movie was pretty good even though it had too many blood and gore scenes for my taste.

Word: Gorge 
Meaning: to consume in huge amounts
Example: On Halloween night; most children gorge on candy.

Word: Gorgeous
Meaning: something that is beautiful or especially attractive
Example: The man was in love with the woman he saw because she was gorgeous; but even though she was beautiful he knew nothing about her.

Word: Gorgeous
Meaning: beautiful and stunning usually in looks
Example: As the gorgeous girl was spotted by the modeling agency; everyone knew she would be a model because no one could take their eyes off of her.

Word: Gormandize
Meaning: to eat lots of food greedily
Example: After sevearl hours without food; the hungry baby is ready to gormandize his next bottle.

Word: Gormless
Meaning: stupid; without intelligence
Example: The doofus sat in the corner with gormless expression on his face and a dunce cap on his head.

Word: Gossamer
Meaning: a light and thin material 
Example: Through Carla’s gossamer sleeves; we could see her thin arms.

Word: Gossip
Meaning: someone that enjoys talking about the private lives of others
Example: My mother is a real gossip; constantly talking about other people behind their backs about all sorts of private things.

Word: Gouge
Meaning: a hole; dent or tear in something
Example: The refrigerator legs; left a gouge in the vinyl flooring when I moved it out to clean behind it.

Word: Gouging
Meaning: to force people to pay more than they should; overcharge
Example: Price gouging was wide spread on winter weather related items during the unexpected severe winter storm.

Word: Gourd
Meaning: a fleshy large fruit with thick hard shell
Example: Early man would use a gourd for a bowl; fishing net and musical instruments.

Word: Governance
Meaning: a manner of governing or the act of governing
Example: Because our system of governance in this town is so inefficient; we are looking into a new mayor in the next year or two.

Word: Government
Meaning: the ruling body of a nation; state; or community
Example: Each of the three branches of government share power; meaning no one section is in full control of national decisions.

Word: Governor
Meaning: a person who is the leader of the government of a state
Example: Though he talked a good talk; the governor of Louisiana was clueless on how to balance a budget and left the state bankrupt.

Word: Gown
Meaning: a full-length; loose-fitting dress
Example: Wearing a magical gown; Cinderella sashayed into the ball in search of her Prince.

Word: Gown
Meaning: a long; close-fitting dress that a woman wears to events
Example: The red carpet star war a chic gown and fancy shoes that complimented her dress.

Word: Grab
Meaning: to take hold of something
Example: Falling from the cliff; the mountain climber tried to grab the ledge but had not grip.

Word: Grace
Meaning: elegance in movement
Example: The dancer’s grace shined every time she danced on the stage.

Word: Graceful
Meaning: having agile and fluid movement or speech
Example: The sophisticated skater had a graceful air as she swirled around on the ice.

Word: Gracefulness
Meaning: the state of moving elegantly
Example: The woman’s gracefulness on stage caused her to look as if she was walking on air.

Word: Gracious 
Meaning: courteous and kind
Example: The gracious hostess greeted everyone warmly.

Word: Graciousness
Meaning: kindness and warm courtesy
Example: The graciousness in Mrs. Kennedy’s speech showed the crowd how kind she was.

Word: Gradation
Meaning: a gradual transition from one phase or stage into another
Example: Although ravens; crows; and blackbirds all come from the same family; they have a gradation in color and wing span.

Word: Grade
Meaning: a level of quality; size and importance
Example: I will only purchase the best grade eggs even though the cost is higher.

Word: Gradient
Meaning: the curve of a road that increases in elevation forming a shape like a hill
Example: Riders screamed as the rollercoaster paused on the highest gradient and then dropped straight down.

Word: Gradual
Meaning: slowly or bit by bit
Example: It is usually a bad idea to jump from a cold environment to a hot one; so you should look to heat yourself through gradual means if you’ve been out in the cold.

Word: Graduation
Meaning: the act of receiving an academic diploma or degree
Example: Before graduation; I took pictures with proud family members who had come to watch me receive my diploma.

Word: Graffiti
Meaning: writing or images drawn somewhere in public (usually on a wall) without permission
Example: Local gangs covered the train cars with graffiti symbols representing their cliques.

Word: Graft
Meaning: corruption; specifically use of a politician's authority for personal gain
Example: Many people believe the president is guilty of graft since his personal businesses will indeed benefit from his political position.

Word: Grail
Meaning: the object of an extended or difficult quest
Example: When the flat screen television first hit the market; it was the holy grail of the T.V. industry.

Word: Gram
Meaning: a metric unit that is used to measure mass and is 1/1000 of a kilogram
Example: The patient took a two gram does of the medication each morning before bedtime.

Word: Grammatical
Meaning: related to the structure of a language (grammar.) 
Example: Mya’s writing teacher showed her how to correct her grammatical errors and make her language stronger in her paragraphs.

Word: Granary
Meaning: a storehouse for grain
Example: Part of the barn has been converted into a granary to store wheat.

Word: Grand
Meaning: large and impressive
Example: The Titanic’s grand staircase; large and ornate; was completely gone when the remainder of the ship were discovered in the 1980s.

Word: Grandeur
Meaning: the state of being magnificent or overwhelmingly impressive
Example: During the tour; the grandeur of the royal palace left me speechless.

Word: Grandiloquent 
Meaning: prone to using sophisticated language in order to impress people
Example: Even though Rick did not understand the grandiloquent words; he still used them to impress his wealthy friends.

Word: Grandiose
Meaning: appearing to be impressive but not really possible or practical
Example: The idea of throwing a party on top of the swimming pool seemed quite grandiose to everyone in the room.

Word: Grandstand
Meaning: a covered seating area typically in a sports arena
Example: The NASCAR enthusiasts peered from the shaded grandstand and watched the cars speed around the track.

Word: Grange
Meaning: a farmhouse or homestead
Example: Dusting his boots off; the farmer stepped into his grange after a long day on the ranch.

Word: Granite
Meaning: stonework
Example: Granite steps lead into an immaculate foyer where stonework continued into the sitting room.

Word: Grant
Meaning: to consent to provide something that was asked for
Example: Since the couple proved they had been working full-time for the past three years and had limited bills; the bank decided to grant them a house loan.

Word: Granted
Meaning: allowed
Example: Although the foreigner was granted entry the country temporarily; she had to leave when her visa expired.

Word: Graphic
Meaning: related to visual art; especially drawing or lettering
Example: The graphic design artist created a marketing photo using a high-tech visual art app.

Word: Grapple 
Meaning: to wrestle or struggle
Example: With his wife out of town; he knew he would have to grapple with the kids all week.

Word: Grasp
Meaning: to grip
Example: He held her hand firm in his grasp and refused to let go.

Word: Grate 
Meaning: to shred a food item by moving it forcefully against a grater
Example: Please grate the lettuce for the tacos.

Word: Grateful
Meaning: thankful; appreciative 
Example: After failing the first test; the student was extremely grateful that her professor allowed a retake.

Word: Gratification
Meaning: pleasure or satisfaction
Example: No gratification was gained from the argument and both the husband and wife walked away unhappy.

Word: Gratify 
Meaning: to satisfy or make content
Example: Hopefully the chocolate bar will gratify my desire for something sweet.

Word: Gratis
Meaning: without charge; complimentary
Example: The homeless shelter provides food gratis for needy individuals.

Word: Gratitude
Meaning: appreciation; thankfulness
Example: Expressing her gratitude during her acceptance speech; the actress thanked her husband and parents for their support.

Word: Gratuitous
Meaning: uncalled for; unwarranted; unnecessary
Example: Even though I had been looking forward to seeing the movie; I walked out of the theater after thirty minutes because of so much gratuitous foul language.

Word:  Gratuity 
Meaning: a monetary tip given in gratitude of service provided
Example: I refuse to leave a gratuity when I receive bad service at a restaurant.

Word: Grave
Meaning: serious; critical
Example: Because of her grave illness; the woman spent many weeks in the hospital.

Word: Gravel
Meaning: cause annoyance in; especially by minor irritations
Example: During an employee meeting; a department manager stood up and said “Don’t gravel your boss by being late to work every day or find another job.”

Word: Gravid
Meaning: pregnant
Example: The lizard was gravid with eggs soon after mating season.

Word: Gravitas
Meaning: a dignity of manner or behavior; a leadership quality
Example: A leader must have gravitas and be capable of commanding respect from others.

Word: Gravitate 
Meaning: to be pulled towards
Example: People tend to gravitate towards the most outgoing person at a party.

Word: Gravity
Meaning: the force that attracts objects towards the center of the Earth
Example: Newton discovered the force of gravity when an apple was pulled down from the tree he was sitting under.

Word: Graze
Meaning: to scratch the surface of something
Example: Thankful that the bullet was only able to graze his chest; the police officer took off after the suspect.

Word: Grazing
Meaning: eating small portions of food throughout the day instead of large meals
Example: The queen was grazing over fancy hors d'oeuvres all day and was too full to eat dinner.

Word: Grease
Meaning: oil; lubricant
Example: Grease was used to stop the squeaky wheel from whining.

Word: Great
Meaning: large in size or dimensions
Example: The great pyramids of Giza tower over the other stunning wonders of the world.

Word: Greatest
Meaning: largest in size; number; or degree
Example: The mastiff was the greatest of all the dogs at the park.

Word: Greatness
Meaning: having superior and distinguished quality
Example: The model’s greatness could not be overshadowed by others on the runway.

Word: Greed
Meaning: the desire to have more than what one needs
Example: The gator’s greed showed as he ferociously devoured a second piece of prey.

Word: Greedily
Meaning: showing a selfish desire to have more and more of something
Example: Staring at the third little pig greedily; the wolf couldn’t wait to have another pork chop for supper.

Word: Greedy
Meaning: showing a selfish desire for more of something
Example: The greedy billionaire had plenty of money but still stole from anyone who could increase his wealth.

Word: Greenhorn
Meaning: a person that is a beginner or new to an activity
Example: Veteran bingo players noticed that the greenhorn could not keep up with the fast caller.

Word: Gregarious
Meaning: fond of the company of others; sociable.
Example: When you walk in a room; you radiate gregarious energy; surely to brighten all gloomy souls.

Word: Grid
Meaning: an object containing spaced bars that are parallel to or cross each other
Example: When pressed down; the grid created perfect parallel lines across the waffles.

Word: Gridlock
Meaning: a situation in which nothing is progressing or moving forward
Example: Thanks to an accident occurring at a major junction; three sections of the city have been put into gridlock; with no one being able to move an inch.

Word: Grief
Meaning: deep sorrow and distress
Example: The death of her cat sent the woman into a period of grief.

Word: Grievance
Meaning: an aggravation or complaint
Example: Janet’s grievance against her neighbor has turned into a civil lawsuit.

Word: Grieve
Meaning: to mourn or be upset over a loss
Example: Taking the time to grieve the loss of a loved one is an important part of the healing process.

Word: Grievous
Meaning: very serious and often causing a lot of pain or suffering
Example: Hearing that you have cancer is always grievous news.

Word: Grim
Meaning: dreary; miserable
Example: The soldiers were grim after losing many of their comrades in battle.

Word: Grimace
Meaning: a facial expression that usually indicates strong dislike or pain
Example: Whenever I think of the time I wasted with my cheating ex-girlfriend; I cannot help but feel a grimace forming on my face.

Word: Grime
Meaning: a thick layer of dirt
Example: Grime and debris covered the floor of the construction site.

Word: Grimly
Meaning: to do something in a cold or stern manner
Example: Disappointed by the results; the bitter candidate grimly conceded.

Word: Grin and bear
Meaning: to accept something bad or difficult without complaining
Example: Oliver would rather grin and bear the constant teasing than to stand up to bully or tell a teacher.

Word: Grin
Meaning: a smile
Example: When he realized that he won the prize; a grin appeared on the man’s once sullen face.

Word: Grind
Meaning: to crush something into small pieces
Example: Using a machine to grind the coffee beans took a lot less time than pounding them by hand.

Word: Griot
Meaning: a West African traveler who keeps the oral history of a tribe through storytelling; poetry; and other forms of entertainment
Example: Wise and astute; the Nigerian griot was known for his tales of long ago.

Word: Grip
Meaning: a tight hold
Example: Holding onto the balloon with a tight grip; the toddler refused to share his inflatable.

Word: Gripe
Meaning: to complain
Example: The only thing the finicky patron could find to gripe about was the dull silverware.

Word: Grippe
Meaning: Influenza; flu
Example: Grippe symptoms caused the ill patient to run a fever and sweat profusely.

Word: Grisly
Meaning: prompting panic or horror
Example: After the accident with the meat cutter; Katie refused to let anyone see her grisly face.

Word: Grit 
Meaning: bravery and mental strength
Example: The young boy’s grit kept him grounded during the two days he was lost in the forest.

Word: Gritty
Meaning: courageous; brave
Example: The gritty warrior refused to bow down; even in the face of death.

Word: Grizzled
Meaning: having hair with gray streaks in it
Example: His grizzled beard was no longer black like it was in his youth.

Word: Grizzly
Meaning: a type of brown bear that is extremely large and lives in North America
Example: The grizzly bear came into the clearing on its hind legs and roared at the hunters making a run for their truck.

Word: Groan
Meaning: a low; mournful sound uttered in pain or grief
Example: The boy began to whimper groan about going to school; making his parents suspect that something was not right.

Word: Groggy
Meaning: being so tired and weak that one is unable to think or walk correctly
Example: After taking the strong painkillers; the patient was groggy and could barely stay awake.

Word: Groove
Meaning: a long; narrow channel or depression cut parallel to the grain onto a surface
Example: The window screen slipped out of the groove within the frame and I had to quickly place it back in before it fell three stories to the ground.

Word: Grope
Meaning: to feel around blindly for something
Example: The homeowner began to grope around in the dark in search of a flashlight or candle.

Word: Groped
Meaning: searched without light or certainty
Example: In the dark; I groped for the light switch.

Word: Gross domestic product
Meaning: the monetary value of all the finished goods and services produced that is used to gauge the health of a country’s economy
Example: If gross domestic product is rising; our economy is in good shape because our goods and services are becoming worth more money.

Word: Gross
Meaning: disgusting; nasty
Example: When I observed my skinned knee; a gross white slime oozed from beneath the scraped skin and blood.

Word: Grotesque
Meaning: extremely ugly and strange
Example: Diego pressed his face against the window so that what we saw was a grotesque distortion resembled some alien life form.

Word: Grotto
Meaning: a small cave or cavern with attractive features
Example: My best friend and I took a two hour adventure tour into a grotto which we could climb and crawl within it using supplied gear.

Word: Grouch
Meaning: a moaner and complainer
Example: My teenager will often become a grouch by whining when I simply ask him to clean his room.

Word: Groundless
Meaning: with no basis in reality or no evidence of being the case
Example: You have complained of poor customer service yet have not actually spoken to an employee yet; thus your complaint is groundless.

Word: Group
Meaning: a number of people or items that are gathered together
Example: A group of birds flew together over the bay.

Word: Grouse
Meaning: a small; chubby brown bird that is hunted for food and sport
Example: While perched on the cable wire; the large brown grouse made the wire dip due to his plump bod.

Word: Grove
Meaning: a typically isolated small group of trees
Example: While waves of grass made up the majority of the open plains; there is a small grove made up of a dozen trees or so to the west.

Word: Grovel 
Meaning: to be kind to someone in order to gain something
Example: The dog was willing to grovel for the biscuit.

Word: Growl
Meaning: A low; threatening sound usually made by an animal
Example: Letting out a low growl; the dog let her owner know that someone was outside the door.

Word: Grown
Meaning: the state of being already aged or progressing to a later level in development; finished growing
Example: Oranges are grown year round in Florida.

Word: Growth
Meaning: the process of increasing in size
Example: Growth of our business has led us to search for a larger office space.

Word: Grudge
Meaning: an intense feeling of dislike or animosity towards an individual who has treated you unfairly
Example: It’s hard to not hold a grudge against the girl who bullied me for four years in high school.

Word: Grudgingly
Meaning: in a manner expressing lack of desire
Example: After losing our bet; my sister grudgingly agreed to do my chores.

Word: Gruel
Meaning: a thin; runny version of porridge made by boiling oats in water or milk that is usually considered unpleasant
Example: Though it looked disgusting; the starving man knew better than to pass up a bowl of gruel.

Word: Grueling
Meaning: requiring great effort; extremely tiring
Example: For over a year; Jake prepared for the grueling triathlon.

Word: Gruesome
Meaning: triggering disgust or horror
Example: The scary movie was filled with lots of gruesome scenes that made my stomach queasy.

Word: Gruff
Meaning: severe in tone or manner 
Example: Although the old man pretends to be gruff; he is really warm and kind.

Word: Grumble
Meaning: to whine about something
Example: Grandpa likes to grumble about how rude it is that children are always on their cellphones at the dinner table.

Word: Grumpy
Meaning: ill-tempered or unhappy
Example: I am always grumpy in the early morning; rarely saying a word and frowning at everyone who bothers to look my way.

Word: Guarantee
Meaning: assurance within an agreement that specific conditions be satisfied 
Example: Two days before the Super Bowl; my husband bought a new television that was on sale with a guarantee it will be delivered and set up before the game.

Word: Guardian
Meaning: someone who is legally responsible for another person such as a child whose parents have died
Example: After my brother; a single father of two boys was sent to prison for twenty years; I became the guardian of my nephews.

Word: Gubernatorial
Meaning: associated with the office of governor
Example: After the results of the gubernatorial election have been counted; we will have our new governor.

Word: Guerrilla
Meaning: relating to the wartime strategy of a group or person who is not part of a traditional military
Example: The guerrilla forces have been chased into the mountains by the country’s military.

Word: Guess
Meaning: to give a response to a question or situation when you don’t really know the answer
Example: The professor had us guess the answer to the question even though we weren’t totally sure.

Word: Guest
Meaning: a person invited to visit someone’s home or to attend an event
Example: Each guest was sent an invitation to let them know what time to arrive at the party.

Word: Guffaw
Meaning: a noisy spurt of laughter
Example: After the comedian told a funny joke; he was pleased to receive a large guffaw from the audience.

Word: Guidance
Meaning: help and advice on how to deal with a problem or difficulty
Example: When I cannot make a decision; I usually ask my parents for guidance.

Word: Guide
Meaning: to show people around a place and offer information
Example: During a recent College campus tour; the guide led the prospective college students around the institution learning about the programs offered.

Word: Guideline
Meaning: official advise or instructions that suggests how something should be done
Example: A new guideline has been issued to all staff and teachers on what to do if an unknown person enters the school.

Word: Guild
Meaning: an alliance of individuals with similar goals and interests
Example: In order to be a member of the Pharmacist Guild; you must be a nationally licensed pharmacist.

Word: Guile
Meaning: sly or cunning intelligence
Example: Although Britney pretends to be sweet and innocent; she has used her guile to become one of the most popular celebrities in the world.

Word: Guileless
Meaning: naïve; trusting
Example: The guileless nerd really believed the prom queen had a crush on him.

Word: Guillotine
Meaning: a machine with a sliding; metal blade that was used to behead people
Example: Beheaded by a sharp guillotine; Marie Antionette was formerly the queen of France.

Word: Guilt-trip
Meaning: an occurrence of believing your guilty of something not justified by reality
Example: I wish my parents would stop laying a guilt-trip on me for not going to college.

Word: Guilt
Meaning: the fact/state of having committed a crime or done something wrong
Example: The suspect will not admit guilt; but the police have lots of evidence that he committed the crime.

Word: Guilty
Meaning: responsible for wrongdoing
Example: Because he was guilty of the crime; Charles was sent to the slammer for several years.

Word: Guise
Meaning: the way that someone or something appears to people
Example: Under the guise of a police officer; the crook walked into the bank and easily robbed the tellers.

Word: Gulf
Meaning: any wide diversity; as between individuals in social status; opinion or theory
Example: There is a widening gulf between the rich and the poor in our society.

Word: Gullet
Meaning: throat; esophagus
Example: A piece of food stuck in the man’s gullet caused him to chokingly gasp for air.

Word: Gullible
Meaning: easily fooled or cheated
Example: The gullible woman gave all her money to a fake charity.

Word: Gully
Meaning: a deep long channel worn in the earth cut by running water usually after heavy rainfall
Example: The bodies of the three climbers were located at the bottom of a steep gully after the area recently experienced a flash flood.

Word: Gumption
Meaning: ability and courage to get things done
Example: Building up the gumption to jump; the dare devil made his way to the edge of the cliff.

Word: Guru
Meaning: an individual who is considered to be an unrivaled specialist on a subject
Example: You should listen to financial guru Steven Smith because he is worth half a billion dollars.

Word: Gush
Meaning: to speak with extreme enthusiasm and often praise
Example: The exuberant mother loves to gush about her two children; praising them for literally everything and believing them to be incapable of wrong in any way.

Word: Gust
Meaning: a brief yet strong wind
Example: I lost the flyer I had been holding when a gust of wind blew it out of my hand and into the street of the city.

Word: Gustatory
Meaning: relating to taste
Example: The dinner was a gustatory pleasure for the palate.

Word: Gusto
Meaning: passion or excitement
Example: Jim loves playing football and attacks every game with gusto.

Word: Gusty
Meaning: lots of wind
Example: The National Kite Flying Association for Girls recommends gusty winds of 20 miles per hour to fly a kite.

Word: Gutter
Meaning: a long narrow trough attached to a roof’s edge in order to allow the rain to flow away from the house
Example: Without having a gutter on the front of our house; the rainwater poured straight down the side of our house and puddled next to it.

Word: Guttural
Meaning: sounding harsh and throaty
Example: The witness described the suspect’s voice as guttural.

Word: Gymnasium
Meaning: a large area of a school or facility devoted to physical activities
Example: On the tour of Parksdale Elementary School; the new students passed by the gymnasium and saw kids playing basketball and jumping rope.

Word: Gynarchy
Meaning: a government ruled by a woman or women
Example: Some feminists insist that a government ruled completely by women would be more successful than those led by men.

Word: Gyrate
Meaning: to move in a spiral or circular motion
Example: If you want the exotic dancer to gyrate especially for you; you’ll have to pay for a private dance.

Word: Gyration
Meaning: circular rotation
Example: The gyration of the washing machine distracted the woman as she worked.

Word: Gyre
Meaning: to whirl or spin
Example: The ghost began to gyre around in a circle before floating out of the room.

Word: Gyroscope
Meaning: a wheel or disk used for navigation that is mounted so it can spin rapidly in various directions
Example: The spinning gyroscope helped the sailors determine which direction to sail.

Word: Habeas Corpus
Meaning: a legal order demanding that a prisoner be brought before a judge to make sure that he or she is not being held illegally
Example: The Cuban prison was beyond the reach of habeas corpus so the prisoners there will continue to be held illegally.

Word: Habit
Meaning: a behavior that a person repeats often
Example: Washing your hands after using the restroom is a healthy habit.

Word: Habitable
Meaning: safe and comfortable to live in
Example: The mounds of debris and trash in the rental home meant it would be months before it was habitable.

Word: Habitat
Meaning: the residence where an animal or plant normally abides
Example: The deer’s habitat is being destroyed by commercial builders who cut down forests.

Word: Habitation
Meaning: the state of living in somewhere
Example: If the wildfires continue; the area will not be safe for habitation.

Word: Habitual
Meaning: ongoing; regular 
Example: Being a habitual liar; the fibber seemed to lie more than he told the truth.

Word: Habituate
Meaning: to help a person or animal get accustomed to a new environment
Example: Whether or not they were able to habituate the injured bear depended on the patience of the zoo caregivers.

Word: Hacienda
Meaning: a large; Spanish estate
Example: A wildfire burned down the hacienda and caused the owners to seek shelter with friends.

Word: Hackneyed
Meaning: repeated too often; overused
Example: Too often used by young girls; the word “like” has become hackneyed.

Word: Haggard
Meaning: appearing in poor health or spirits
Example: The woman looked haggard after sitting up for a week with her dying husband.

Word: Haggle
Meaning: to engage in conversation to reach a deal
Example: To get a good bargain; Jake will haggle with the flea market vendors.

Word: Hagiography
Meaning: a type of biography that is about the life of a saint
Example: The author’s most famous work was a hagiography about Mother Teresa.

Word: Hail
Meaning: solid clumps of rain that fall as ice
Example: Golf ball sized hail cracked the man’s windshield when it fell from the sky.

Word: Hajj
Meaning: islamic pilgrimage to Mecca
Example: The faithful Muslims embarked on their spiritual hajj to Mecca.

Word: Halcyon
Meaning: calm and undisturbed
Example: I was very content during the halcyon days of my childhood.

Word: Hale
Meaning: a person especially an elder who is healthy; robust
Example: At our last family reunion; it was good to see my great Aunt Sarah still hale and hearty.

Word: Half-baked
Meaning: not completely thought out or planned
Example: Theo’s business idea was half-baked and never got off of the ground due to poor planning.

Word: Half
Meaning: one of two equal parts that together constitutes a whole
Example: During the lecture; half the students took notes.

Word: Halfway house
Meaning: a place where former inmates; drug addicts; or other groups go to learn skills that will allow them to integrate back into society
Example: After finishing most of his prison sentence; the parolee was sent to a halfway house that could help him find employment.

Word: Halfway
Meaning: middle; midway
Example: Halfway through the game; the pitcher hurt his hand and had to sit out the rest of the innings.

Word: Halitosis
Meaning: bad breath
Example: Halitosis caused the man’s breath to smell like a combination of rotten egg and vomit.

Word: Hallmark
Meaning: characteristic; feature
Example: Dolly Parton’s bleach blonde hair is a hallmark.

Word: Hallow
Meaning: to brand something as sacred or holy
Example: John showed he did not hallow his marriage as a sacred commitment when he engaged in an affair with his neighbor.

Word: Hallowed
Meaning: regarded as holy; venerated; sacred
Example: We stood near the hallowed ground where the soldiers had fallen; not daring to step too close.

Word: Halloween
Meaning: a holiday celebrated on October 31st each year in which children dress up in costumes spooky costumes and walk door to door asking for treats
Example: Halloween night was filled with trickery; with neighborhood children dressing up like ghosts and goblins.

Word: Hallucination
Meaning: an image; a sound; or a smell) that seems real but does not really exist
Example: An allergic reaction to medication brought on a hallucination in which the patient thought she saw a dog in her hospital room.

Word: Halt
Meaning: to stop
Example: A lack of funding stopped the nonprofit to immediately halt all services that is had been providing.

Word: Haltingly
Meaning: in a way that is hesitant; wavering
Example: The first time lecturer spoke haltingly and stopped every few minutes to make sure her listeners understood.

Word: Halves
Meaning: two equal portions of an item that has been split apart
Example: Using his sword; the samurai split his enemy’s body into two halves.

Word: Halyard
Meaning: a rope used for raising and lowering a sail or flag
Example: The ship’s sail is hoisted by a halyard attached to a ring at the sail’s head.

Word: Hamartia
Meaning: a fatal flaw that leads to the demise of a hero or protagonist
Example: Most tragic heroes have some sort of personal weakness; or a hamartia; that leads to their downfall in the story.

Word: Hamlet
Meaning: a small rural settlement without a church
Example: The hamlet was situated on the outskirts of a larger village.

Word: Hammer
Meaning: to drive something by force
Example: The camp director tried unsuccessfully to hammer the tent stakes into the frozen ground.

Word: Hammock
Meaning: a swinging bed; usually made of netting or canvas that is hung up by each end; often from trees
Example: Swaying on her back in the hammock; the resting woman took an afternoon siesta.

Word: Hammy
Meaning: overly dramatic and theatrical
Example: The actress’s hammy performance wasn’t terrible; but it was a tad bit over-the-top.

Word: Hamper
Meaning: to delay progress
Example: This awful traffic is definitely going to hamper our trip to the beach.

Word: Hand over
Meaning: to pass off responsibility or a task to someone else
Example: Diana has agreed to hand over the art project to her sister since she doesn’t enjoy painting anymore.

Word: Handdog
Meaning: shamefaced; ashamed
Example: With a handdog face; the boy hung his head low and admitted that he had stolen the money from his father’s wallet.

Word: Handful
Meaning: a small amount
Example: A handful of parents showed up to the midday meeting while the rest chose to come at night.

Word: Handicraft
Meaning: an activity or craft that requires with the hands
Example: Shoemaking was once a handicraft; respected in the days when shoemakers formed boots by hand.

Word: Handily
Meaning: done in a skillful or practical way
Example: The runner handily tossed the baton to his teammate who took off toward the finish line.

Word: Handiwork
Meaning: work that is done skillfully with one’s hands
Example: The completed masterpiece was the handiwork of a world-class painter who loved to work with watercolors.

Word: Handkerchief
Meaning: a square piece of material carried in one’s pocket to be used to wipe their nose or face
Example: The widow cried many tears into her soft handkerchief at her husband’s funeral.

Word: Handle
Meaning: to control or manage
Example: Fifty students on a field trip is too many for even a seasoned teacher to handle.

Word: Hands down
Meaning: easily; without question
Example: We thought our team would win the game hands down; but it was much harder than expected.

Word: Hands-on
Meaning: experience earned from activity that uses the body instead of just book learning
Example: The teacher allows the children to take part in hands-on science experiments in which they get to dig around in the dirt.

Word: Handsome
Meaning: attractive with masculine features
Example: The handsome prince attracted fair maidens from every nearby kingdom.

Word: Handsomely
Meaning: generously; substantially
Example: After calling a tip in to the crime hotline; the informant was rewarded handsomely for his information.

Word: Handy
Meaning: useful; practical
Example: The woman’s husband was not a good cook; but was handy around the house when things needed to be fixed.

Word: Hangar 
Meaning: a place where aircraft are kept when not in use
Example: Because the hangar was damaged during the storm; we had to place the airplane in a local barn.

Word: Hanger
Meaning: a shaped piece of metal; wood; or plastic that is used to suspend things like clothing
Example: The woman went into a rage when a wire hanger was used to hang up a dress in the closet.

Word: Hangover
Meaning: a severe headache caused by drinking too much alcohol
Example: Some drinkers never get a hangover while others heads hurt after one drink.

Word: Hanker
Meaning: to yearn or pine to do something
Example: After years of an unhappy marriage; the man begin to hanker to have an affair.

Word: Hankering
Meaning: to have an endless craving for or to do something
Example: I hope my husband has a hankering for fried chicken since that’s what we’re having for dinner.

Word: Haphazard
Meaning: random; chaotic; incomplete
Example: Compared to her mother’s organized system; Jen’s approach to housekeeping was haphazard; at best.

Word: Hapless
Meaning: having no luck; unfortunate
Example: When Jason lost his wife and job on the same day; he knew he was a hapless soul.

Word: Haploid
Meaning: having a single set of unpaired chromosomes
Example: Haploid drones have 16 chromosomes and not 32 like the diploid queen.

Word: Happen
Meaning: to occur
Example: The king wanted to take on a second wife; but the queen would never allow that to happen.

Word: Happen
Meaning: take place; occur
Example: Accidents happen during potty training; so make sure to keep extra clothes on hand.

Word: Happenstance
Meaning: a chance situation or coincidence
Example: The coffeeshop conversation was happenstance; a coincidental meeting that lead to a whirlwind romance.

Word: Happier
Meaning: having more joy
Example: Money might not buy happiness; but I would be much happier driving a Porsche than a Pinto.

Word: Happily
Meaning: in a happy way
Example: The playful dog barked happily when her owner returned from work.

Word: Happiness
Meaning: pleasure; joy
Example: Happiness exuded from the new bride’s face as she enjoyed her wedding day festivities.

Word: Happy hour
Meaning: the time each day when a bar or restaurant sells drinks at a reduced price
Example: Happy hour drinks at Sonic are always half price between two and four.

Word: Happy
Meaning: feeling or showing pleasure; joy; or contentment
Example: At their beautiful wedding; the happy couple smiled from ear to ear.

Word: Haptic
Meaning: related to the sense of touch
Example: Being haptic; the robot was able to sense if an object came close enough to touch.

Word: Harangue
Meaning: a loud and aggressive speech; verbal attack
Example: Even though the members of the church were falling asleep; the minister continued his harangue on the evils of society.

Word: Harass
Meaning: to constantly bother or attack
Example: As a teacher; Ann spends a small part of her day making sure her students do not bully or harass each other.

Word: Harassment
Meaning: behavior that is repeated and annoying or bothersome
Example: Sheila accused her boss of harassment after he continued to ask her out on dates.

Word: Harbinger
Meaning: one that pioneers in or initiates a major change
Example: Everyone knows the groundhog is the harbinger of a change in seasons.

Word: Harbor
Meaning: an area where an individual can find solace and security
Example: During the tornado; we found safety in a harbor without windows.

Word: Hard
Meaning: difficult
Example: The hard math equation stumped not only the calculus student but also the professor.

Word: Hardcore
Meaning: extremely dedicated and committed
Example: The runner’s hardcore dedication to winning the race made him a shoe-in for the Olympics.

Word: Harden
Meaning: to become firm
Example: The chocolate chip cookies are still soft when coming out of the oven but hardened after sitting for a while.

Word: Hardihood
Meaning: bravery; confidence to take action
Example: The volunteer firefighter’s hardihood shined through as he burst into the burning home and saved the trapped residents.

Word: Hardly
Meaning: barely
Example: The hermit hardly leaves his home anymore; preferring to stay inside his quaint quarters.

Word: Hardness
Meaning: firmness; solidity
Example: The harness of the frozen ground stopped the underground burial from taking place.

Word: Hardship
Meaning: adversity; difficulty
Example: A hardship loan was approved so that the worker could draw money out of his retirement when his car broke down.

Word: Hardware
Meaning: tools or machine parts
Example: A coupon for the local hardware store advertised buy one; get one free on all hammers.

Word: Hardworking
Meaning: diligent; industrious
Example: Every hardworking employee is rewarded with a bonus at the end of the quarter.

Word: Hardy
Meaning: tough; resilient
Example: Trees in the woodland are hardy; withstanding cold winters and severe weather in the spring.

Word: Hare
Meaning: a rabbit like mammal that is furry with long ears
Example: Unlike its cousin the rabbit; the hare moves with a leaping motion instead of a hop.

Word: Hark
Meaning: to listen attentively
Example: All of the children stopped to hark the Christmas carolers singing outside the window.

Word: Harlequin
Meaning: a jester; usually dressing in white and black; that behaves in a silly way and makes people laugh
Example: The harlequin entertained the king’s table with his silent but interesting magical and comedy acts.

Word: Harlot
Meaning: a prostitute
Example: The seductive harlot pretended to sell wares in the market; but everyone knew she sold much more than rugs.

Word: Harm
Meaning: to hurt or injure
Example: I try not to harm animals; but was forced to kill the spider crawling in my bed.

Word: Harmful
Meaning: likely to injure or cause harm
Example: Harmful chemicals succeeded in killing the pests but they also contaminated our water system.

Word: Harmless
Meaning: something that is safe and unlikely to cause harm or hurt
Example: Everyone was shocked that the harmless old man was actually a jujitsu master.

Word: Harmonious
Meaning: being in harmony or agreement
Example: Although the church members usually disagreed about charity work; they were harmonious about feeding the homeless.

Word: Harmonize
Meaning: to sing or play musical notes that flow together in a pleasing way
Example: The vocalists began to harmonize their beautiful voices and wowed the crowd with their agreement.

Word: Harness
Meaning: straps or fittings used to hold something in place
Example: The tightrope walker was fitted with a harness to stop him from plummeting to his death if he slipped.

Word: Harp
Meaning: to constantly focus on one thing or issue
Example: My mother continues to nag and harp on my lack of interest in college.

Word: Harried
Meaning: excessively busy
Example: We had to remind our harried waitress to bring our check.

Word: Harrow
Meaning: a farming device with sharp metal blades that is dragged across land to smooth or break up the soil
Example: Once the harrow broke up the clods of dirt on the farm; the farmer was able to plant the seeds.

Word: Harrowing 
Meaning: producing distress or discomfort
Example: The car wreck was a harrowing incident for me.

Word: Harry
Meaning: to harass; annoy or torment
Example: The supervisor believes to harry the employees during year end physical inventory will get the job done quickly.

Word: Harsh
Meaning: cruel and hostile
Example: The harsh man screamed at the players over the microphone.

Word: Harshly
Meaning: in a way that is cruel or rough
Example: Tribes that are still practicing female genital mutilation have been harshly criticized by women’s rights organizations worldwide.

Word: Harvest
Meaning: crops that are gathered
Example: Without machinery to gather the harvest; workers were forced to collect the crops by hand.

Word: Has-been
Meaning: a person declining in popularity or effectiveness; once admired
Example: Now a has-been model; she once had a promising career and was sought by top model agencies.

Word: Hasidic
Meaning: relating to a conservative form of Judaism that began in 18th century Europe
Example: Hasidic boys of the Jewish faith visited the synagogue to worship and pray.

Word: Haste
Meaning: quickness
Example: The law enforcement officers knew they needed to move in haste if they wanted to capture the escaped criminals.

Word: Hasten
Meaning: to move in a quick fashion
Example: Marilyn made an attempt to hasten the death of her elderly husband by putting arsenic in his food.

Word: Hastily
Meaning: moving or acting with speed or urgency
Example: With a dangerous hurricane approaching; he hastily gathered his things and fled his home.

Word: Hasty
Meaning: speedy; hurried
Example: The professor’s hasty speech confused the students as they had no clue what he had said.

Word: Hatch
Meaning: a small opening in a wall; roof; or floor
Example: Ship workers opened the hatch and climbed down into the cargo hold area.

Word: Hatchling
Meaning: an infant animal that has recently hatched from an egg
Example: The baby snake has just hatched from its egg; but unfortunately its mother has no intention of caring for the hatchling.

Word: Hateful
Meaning: filled with hatred; unpleasantness
Example: The hateful server scowled every time we asked her to refill our drinks.

Word: Hatred
Meaning: an extreme feeling of dislike
Example: The night owl’s hatred of mornings caused her to hit snooze button several times.

Word: Haughty
Meaning: proud and unfriendly
Example: Because she was not nice; the haughty girl had few friends.

Word: Haul
Meaning: to use effort to transport something
Example: The junkmen are going to haul away my old appliances.

Word: Haunches
Meaning: Hindquarters; Hips; buttocks; and upper thighs of a human or animal
Example: Sitting upon his haunches; the horse neighed and whinnied.

Word: Haunt
Meaning: to appear as a spirit or ghost
Example: Spirits came to haunt the frightened woman in her dreams.

Word: Hauteur
Meaning: conceit; arrogance
Example: Jim’s hauteur has led him to believe he is better than everyone else.

Word: Haven
Meaning: a location that offers security
Example: Safe Haven is the local shelter that offers housing and counseling for abused women.

Word: Havoc
Meaning: extensive destruction or devastation
Example: The volcano inflicted havoc upon the tiny village.

Word: Hawk
Meaning: any one of several large birds of prey that have hooked bills; strong claws; and rounded wings
Example: The great hawk swooped down and seized the mouse with his talons.

Word: Hazard
Meaning: a source of danger
Example: Lead paint is an environmental hazard and can harm children.

Word: Hazardous
Meaning: risky; dangerous
Example: People are often surprised that overexposure to moth balls can be hazardous to their health.

Word: Hazy
Meaning: cloudy; foggy
Example: Because the windshield was so fogged up; everything along the highway looked hazy.

Word: Headache
Meaning: nuisance or unpleasant problem
Example: Parking in New York City has become a major headache and I would rather take a cab to work.

Word: Headland
Meaning: a section of high land that sticks out from the coast into the sea
Example: The woman breathed in the scent of the ocean as she stood on the headland above the sea.

Word: Headlong
Meaning: done rashly and without thinking
Example: The teenagers jumped headlong into a committed relationship.

Word: Headquarters
Meaning: a center of operations
Example: His business headquarters was situated in downtown New York City.

Word: Heads-up
Meaning: to caution or forewarn beforehand
Example: When the weatherman saw an approaching tornado to the town; he gave a heads-up to the citizens to seek shelter immediately.

Word: Headstrong
Meaning: focused on doing what one wants
Example: The headstrong quarterback thought his plan was better than the coach’s play.

Word: Headway
Meaning: progress or forward movement
Example: Just when then counselor thought they were making headway; the couple decided to end their therapy sessions.

Word: Headwind
Meaning: wind that is moving toward an object so that it is going in the opposing direction
Example: While the aircraft flew through the air; the strong headwind kept beating harshly against the windshield.

Word: Heady
Meaning: a strong; intense; or exhilarating effect
Example: Many pilots find supersonic flight to be a heady experience; providing them with exhilaration that can’t be matched by anything else.

Word: Heal
Meaning: to become healthy again
Example: It took several weeks; but the runner was able to heal from the leg injury that plagued him all season.

Word: Healthful
Meaning: good for a person’s health
Example: Consuming a healthful diet brought down the man’s blood pressure.

Word: Healthily
Meaning: doing something in a healthy way
Example: The chef healthily prepared the meal without oil or margarine.

Word: Healthy
Meaning: not injured or sick
Example: Healthy cells replaced the cancerous ones once the survivor was in remission.

Word: Heap
Meaning: a group of things placed in a pile
Example: A heap of clothes cluttered the bathroom floor.

Word: Hear
Meaning: to receive information about; to come to learn of 
Example: While talking with an old classmate; I was delighted to hear she was coming to our class reunion.

Word: Hearken
Meaning: to listen
Example: Confident and proud; the young man refused to hearken his parents’ advice.

Word: Hearsay
Meaning: information gained from a source that was not directly involved and cannot be proved accurate
Example: Without a witness; the police could not prove that the hearsay was anything more than fiction.

Word: Hearse
Meaning: a vehicle that transports a coffin to a funeral
Example: A black hearse awaited the casket after the funeral closing.

Word: Heart
Meaning: the organ in your chest that pumps blood through your veins and arteries
Example: The doctor used a tool to listen to the patient’s beating heart.

Word: Hearten
Meaning: to encourage; give strength
Example: I tried to hearten my depressed classmate with encouraging words.

Word: Heartfelt
Meaning: honestly meant; sincere
Example: The heartfelt card brought tears to my eyes.

Word: Hearth
Meaning: the area directly in front of a fireplace
Example: We sat in front of the hearth in our living room so we could warm our hands after our day outside in the snow.

Word: Heartily
Meaning: in a jovial and cheerful way
Example: Santa laughed heartily as he smiled at the children with his rosy-red cheeks.

Word: Heartthrob
Meaning: a famous and attractive man with lots of admirers
Example: Teenage girls flocked to the stage when the heartthrob appeared.

Word: Heartwarming
Meaning: something that brings extreme joy or happiness to a person can be uplifting or inspirational
Example: The book tells the heartwarming story of a little girl who is reunited with her lost puppy.

Word: Hearty
Meaning: enthusiastic and warmhearted
Example: Smiling family members offered a hearty welcome to their long lost cousin.

Word: Heat
Meaning: warmth or high temperature
Example: Heat radiated from the fireplace and warmed the hands of the holidaymakers.

Word: Heath
Meaning: a tract of open; uncultivated land
Example: Wild deer ran through the heath; prancing as they glided through the open plain.

Word: Heathen
Meaning: one who is uncultured or nonreligious
Example: If you only eat with your fingers; you are a bit of a heathen.

Word: Heave
Meaning: to use a lot of effort while moving something
Example: A half-court heave of the ball ended in a surprising buzzer beater win for the underdogs.

Word: Heavenly
Meaning: extremely pleasant or enjoyable
Example: The cookbook offered the recipes for heavenly desserts that tasted divine.

Word: Heavily
Meaning: with a great amount of force
Example: As the rain fell heavily; the car’s wipers struggled to keep the windshield clear.

Word: Heavy
Meaning: weighty; substantial
Example: Dropping the heavy ball on his town; the bowler cried out in pain.

Word: Hebetate
Meaning: to make someone become dull mentally; emotionally; or spiritually
Example: The evil stepmother called the boy stupid every day in an effort to hebetate him and break his spirit.

Word: Hebetude
Meaning:  a condition of mental stupor or laziness
Example: Smoking marijuana all day causes Eric to be in a state of hebetude.

Word: Hebetudinous
Meaning: mentally dull or sluggish
Example: The hebetudinous student seemed lethargic when it came to his studies and refused to put any effort towards his studies.

Word: Heck
Meaning: an expression of usually anger or surprise that is used as a way of adding force to a statement
Example: “What in the heck?” the woman exclaimed as she realized her diamond ring was missing from her jewelry box.

Word: Heckle
Meaning: to interrupt a speaker with insulting or rude comments
Example: As they began to heckle the speaker with insulting gestures; the two protesters were escorted from the building.

Word: Hectic
Meaning: quite busy with goings-on and uncertainty 
Example: Since I have a lot to do this week; my schedule is going to be very hectic.

Word: Hedge
Meaning: bushes or shrubs that form a boundary as they grow closely together in a row
Example: An ever-growing hedge stops nosy neighbors from being able to see into the back yard.

Word: Hedonic
Meaning: linked to feelings of pleasure
Example: The vacationer’s hedonic feelings increased tenfold when he headed to the beach to enjoy a relaxing day.

Word: Hedonist
Meaning: one who believes the pursuit of pleasure is the most important thing in life
Example: My neighbor is a hedonist who likes to party all night.

Word: Heed
Meaning: to mind someone’s advice or suggestion
Example: My sister is always in need of cash because she is unwilling to heed my financial advice.

Word: Heedful
Meaning: mindful; watchful
Example: Heedful of the employee’s complaints; the company’s attorney advised his client to take caution.

Word: Heedless
Meaning: careless; reckless
Example: Heedless in his treatment of the inmates; the correctional officer was suspended without pay.

Word: Heel
Meaning: the back part of the foot below the ankle
Example: A sharp rock in the bottom of the runner’s shoe bruised his heel and sent him limping to the finish line.

Word: Heft
Meaning: weight
Example: The heft of the piano made it stubborn to move; even with the help of strong men.

Word: Hefty
Meaning: large and heavy; weighty
Example: A hefty bag of coins was to be traded for the small piece of land.

Word: Hefty
Meaning: heavy; substantial
Example: A hefty payoff was made to the police officer to keep him quiet about the mob’s increasing activities.

Word: Hegemony
Meaning: the predominant influence of one group over another
Example: The president of the company has hegemony over his employees.

Word: Hegira
Meaning: a trip taken to get away from an unlikable or unsafe circumstance
Example: The people took a hegira to escape their war-weary country.

Word: Heifer
Meaning: a young female cow
Example: Purchasing a new heifer for his ranch; the farmer hoped that the young cow would bring forth a calf next year.

Word: Height
Meaning: represents how tall something or someone is
Example: The seemingly incalculable height of the mountain frightened the young explorer.

Word: Heighten
Meaning: to raise something or make it higher (to lift)
Example: The short model uses really tall heels to heighten herself for the runway.

Word: Heighten 
Meaning: to strengthen; deepen; or intensify 
Example: Before potential severe weather; the National Weather Service will heighten awareness by informing people and providing continuous updates.

Word: Heinie
Meaning: a slang term for one’s buttocks
Example: The toddler thought it was funny to remove her diaper and show her heinie to everyone in the world.

Word: Heinous
Meaning: hatefully or shockingly evil
Example: The criminal received the death penalty for his heinous crime.

Word: Heir
Meaning: one who is in line to benefit from another person’s death
Example: When the heir is located; he will receive the billionaire’s estate.

Word: Heiress
Meaning: heiress is a female heir 
Example: When the wealthy politician died; his daughter of was the heiress to all of his valuable assets.

Word: Heirloom
Meaning: an heirloom is something that has been inherited or handed down from generation to generation
Example: The ancient painting was an invaluable heirloom handed down from generation to generation.

Word: Heist
Meaning: a robbery or burglary
Example: Every 6 o’clock news covered the story about the bank heist in the nearby town of Mayville.

Word: Held
Meaning: held means holding something or someone
Example: The young mother smiled as she held her newborn baby girl in her arms for the first time.

Word: Heliocentric
Meaning: relating to the sun as the center of the universe
Example: According to heliocentric theory; the sun is the center of everything in the universe.

Word: Heliograph
Meaning: a device for telegraphing that uses sun's rays flashed from a mirror to send signals
Example: During the 19th century; a heliograph was traditionally used to send sun-based signals over long distances.

Word: Heliolatry
Meaning: worship of the sun
Example: The sunbather’s heliolatry caused her to spend countless hours soaking up rays under the sun she seemed to worship.

Word: Heliotrope
Meaning: a small flowering plant that is purple and fragrant
Example: The fragrance of the lilac heliotrope is known to have calming effects on those who have the plant in their home.

Word: Helium
Meaning: a gas that is used to inflate balloons; found in lamps; and used in cryogenic research
Example: Balloons filled with helium floated up to the ceiling of the building.

Word: Hellbent
Meaning: determined to achieve something or meet a goal at all costs
Example: Although he knew he shouldn’t run in the rain; the athlete was hellbent on getting his daily jog in.

Word: Helot
Meaning: a serf or slave
Example: During ancient Sparta; the helot was considered lower class due to his status in the community.

Word: Helpfulness
Meaning: the giving of help or assistance
Example: Gail’s helpfulness when assisting her teacher earned her a class helper award.

Word: Helpless
Meaning: weak and powerless
Example: The helpless deer was to feeble to escape the hunter as it was being tracked through the woods.

Word: Helplessly
Meaning: in a way that shows a lack of ability; strength; or power
Example: Staring helplessly from the tower; the princess didn’t realize she had the power to save herself.

Word: Helter Skelter
Meaning: disorderly
Example: After numerous years of drug use; the man’s helter skelter mind would never seem focused and always was in a daze.

Word: Hemisphere
Meaning: one half of the Earth; especially one of the halves north and south of the equator
Example: While looking at a map for my vacation; I realized that Panama was just barely in the northern hemisphere so I would need to pack comfortable summer clothing

Word: Hemoglobin
Meaning: the portion of blood that holds iron; makes blood red in color; and transports oxygen
Example: My hemoglobin count is low because I have an iron deficiency.

Word: Hemorrhage
Meaning: a quick outpour that appears incapable of being stopped
Example: Some women undergo a hemorrhage of unstoppable bleeding after giving birth.

Word: Hence
Meaning: therefore; for this reason 
Example: The weather was much better this year; hence the orange crop is larger.

Word: Henceforth
Meaning: from now on
Example: Once I got a promotion at my job; henceforth I would be paying significantly more income taxes due to moving up in to another tax bracket.

Word: Henchman
Meaning: a faithful supporter or “right-hand man” who does dishonest or illegal things for someone else
Example: The bully’s henchman goes around the cafeteria picking on little kids and stealing their lunch for his buddy.

Word: Heptagon
Meaning: a seven sided shape
Example: A heptagon shaped snowflake fell slowly; with its seven sides disappearing before it reached the ground.

Word: Herald
Meaning: a messenger; especially one bringing important news
Example: Because he was always up-to-date on the latest information; we referred to our friend as a herald.

Word: Herbaceous
Meaning: related to herbs any plant used for flavoring; food; medicine; or perfume
Example: The chef crafted an herbaceous paste and spiked the dish with a hint of mint and lemon.

Word: Herbivore
Meaning: an animal that eats only plants
Example: As an herbivore; the giraffe has teeth that are broad and capable of chewing tough plants.

Word: Herculean
Meaning: demanding an extraordinary amount of labor or effort
Example: The firemen knew it would take a Herculean effort to put out the rapidly spreading wildfire.

Word: Herd
Meaning: a cluster of individuals or animals who share something in common
Example: A herd of children ran across the field in search of Easter eggs.

Word: Hereafter
Meaning: usually signifies a change or transition that will be the norm from this point on
Example: Michael started to cry at the funeral when he realized that he would hereafter never taste his grandmother’s cookies or feel her hugs again.

Word: Hereby
Meaning: a formal phrase; action or law
Example: I hereby sentence you to life in prison after all the charges against you have been proven true.

Word: Heredity
Meaning: the inheritance of traits to children from their parents
Example: Because of my heredity; I have my mother’s red hair and my father’s green eyes.

Word: Heresy
Meaning: deviation from a dominant theory; opinion; or practice
Example: Heresy in our church has led to a huge disagreement between members of our congregation.

Word: Heretofore
Meaning: previously; before now
Example: The investment has produced amazing profits that were heretofore unimaginable.

Word: Herewith
Meaning: with this letter or communication
Example: The applicant enclosed her resume herewith the cover letter in an envelope for a position at the local accounting firm.

Word: Heritage
Meaning: something handed down from passed generations; such as traditions; beliefs; languages; values; culture; property; family customs; etc.
Example: Though he was proud of his Italian heritage; he really had never visited the country.

Word: Heritage
Meaning: culture including traditions; languages; or objects which are passed down generationally
Example: The Pyramids of Giza has been declared a world heritage site because of the great history these ruins.

Word:  Hermaphrodite
Meaning: a living thing that has both male and female sex organs or characteristics
Example: During the woman’s sonogram; it was hard to tell the gender of the baby so it could have male organs; female organs; or be a hermaphrodite.

Word: Hermetic
Meaning: associated with a lifestyle in which a person or group is isolated from others
Example: As a freelance writer who rarely leaves her house; Kate lives a hermetic lifestyle.

Word: Hermit
Meaning: someone who lives alone and avoids human companionship
Example: Sheltered by a mountain; the recluse hermit lived in a rickety hut.

Word: Hermitage
Meaning: a place of solitude where an individual resides to gain clarity or profess their faith
Example: The hermitage was situated in the deepest part of the forest; far from prying eyes and human contact.

Word: Hero
Meaning: someone who is known for his or her brave actions
Example: As the hero dove into the raging river; he quickly grabbed the drowning child and brought her to safety.

Word: Heroic
Meaning: very brave
Example: When Anna administered CPR on the drowned victim; witnesses clapped and admired her due to her heroic acts.

Word: Heroine
Meaning: a female hero or protagonist
Example: This story focuses on a young girl; making her the heroine that will embark on an epic journey and save the day.

Word: Heroism
Meaning: the qualities characteristic of a hero; such as courage; bravery; fortitude; unselfishness; etc.
Example: The firefighters showed their bravery and heroism when they were able to retrieve the family members from the burning house right before it crashed to the ground.

Word: Heron
Meaning: a fish-eating bird that is best known for its long neck; legs; and bill
Example: At the base of the waterfall; the heron has its bill in the water hunting for fish.

Word: Hertz
Meaning: unit of frequency
Example: While undergoing a hearing test; the nurse played different sounds with a variety of hertz to determine how well the student could hear

Word: Hesitancy 
Meaning: the state of being indecisive
Example: Because of the mayor’s hesitancy; the order to evacuate wasn't issued until the water began to flood the city.

Word: Hesitant
Meaning: slow to respond because of uncertainty
Example: The president was hesitant to sign off on the war order.

Word: Hesitate
Meaning: pause before doing something because of uncertainty or nervousness
Example: We watched the driver hesitate as she decided whether to turn right or left.

Word: Hesitating
Meaning: pausing before saying or doing something
Example: Hesitating for a second; the basketball player seemed to second guess himself before taking the shot.

Word: Hesitation
Meaning: a delay due uncertainty
Example: Jumping in without hesitation; the swimmer quickly plunged into the pool.

Word: Heterodox
Meaning: different from what is considered the norm
Example: The church will excommunicate anyone who preaches heterodox beliefs.

Word: Heterogeneous
Meaning: not alike
Example: The twins are heterogeneous in appearance and look nothing alike.

Word: Heterosexual
Meaning: being sexually attracted to people of the opposite sex
Example: Being heterosexual; the man only found women attractive.

Word: Heterotroph
Meaning: an organism that must feed on other organisms in order to grow and survive
Example: A carnivore is classified as a heterotroph because it must feed on other living things in order to grow and survive.

Word: Heterozygous
Meaning: having two genes that are different; with one being recessive and one being dominant
Example: Heterozygous eye color alleles led the boy to look like his brown-eyed mother but not his blue-eyed father.

Word: Heuristic
Meaning: improving and learning from certain experiences
Example: The purpose of the heuristic class is to teach people through personal trials.

Word: Hew
Meaning: using heavy blows to hack with a tool or instrument 
Example: When my father got angry with my mother; he would go in the backyard and hew wood with his axe.

Word: Hewn
Meaning: cut or shaped with an ax or chisel
Example: The sculptor’s wooden creation was hewn with a sharp chisel.

Word: Hexagon
Meaning: a figure with six straight sides and angles
Example: The hexagon shaped pizza was sliced into six equal pieces.

Word: Heyday
Meaning: the peak time where there was great achievement and recognition
Example: In the heyday of the company’s history; employees were being paid extremely high paychecks due to the company’s significant profits.

Word: Hiatus
Meaning: a period of time when something is stopped
Example: After Mary had a baby; she took a brief hiatus from work.

Word: Hibernate
Meaning: an adaptation of some animals that allows them to spend the winter in an inactive state
Example: Snoozing deep inside the cave; the bear continued to hibernate all winter long.

Word: Hidden agenda
Meaning: a secret motive or reason
Example: Although Glen appeared to really love the wealthy woman; her children were afraid that he had a hidden agenda.

Word: Hidden
Meaning: not easy to find; not accessible to view
Example: A hidden camera secretly takes a close up photo of the shopper's face.

Word: Hidebound
Meaning: rigidly opposed to change
Example: The hidebound politician refused to change his position on the abortion bill.

Word: Hideous
Meaning: extremely ugly or disgusting
Example: The con man flashed a hideous smile; giving us the chills.

Word: Hierarchy
Meaning: a ranking system designed to maintain order in a society or organization 
Example: In regards to political decisions; the prime minister sits at the top of the British hierarchy.

Word: Hieroglyphic
Meaning: writing that is done in hieroglyphics
Example: The writings of the ancient Egyptians was almost entirely hieroglyphic; based on pictures and drawings.

Word: High horse
Meaning: an arrogant attitude that is considered self-righteous and conceited
Example: The snobby straight-A student was knocked off of her high horse when she found out she hadn’t scored the highest on the exam.

Word: High stakes
Meaning: having a very high potential for gains for losses
Example: The students taking place in high stakes testing have a lot to lose; as they will not get to go on to the next grade if they don’t pass the exam.

Word: High-handed
Meaning: overbearing; using power more forcefully than needed
Example: The high-handed king ruled with an iron fist; never allowing his citizens to have any freedom.

Word: High-octane
Meaning: forceful and energetic in a powerful way
Example: The coach’s high-octane enthusiasm motivated all of his players to give the game their all.

Word: High
Meaning: rising or extending upward
Example: Kim flew her kite high above the ocean and the beach shore.

Word: Highfalutin
Meaning: conceited or arrogant
Example: After the woman discussed her potential case with the highfalutin lawyer; she deliberated whether the lawyer’s abilities were worth his high prices.

Word: Hijack
Meaning: to take control of something (i.e.; a plane) illegally or without permission
Example: During 9-11; the terrorists were able to hijack a plane and crash it into the Twin Towers.

Word: Hijinks
Meaning: mischievious shenanigans or play
Example: Many witnesses could hear the hijinks in the park as the laughing teenagers covered a car in toilet paper.

Word: Hilarious
Meaning: very funny; causing great merriment and laughter
Example: The baby finds it hilarious whenever his mother sings to him in a funny voice.

Word: Hilarious
Meaning: incredibly funny
Example: We laughed nonstop while watching the hilarious sitcom.

Word: Hilarity
Meaning: loud laughter or fun
Example: The hilarity of the comedy show was interrupted by a brawl in the audience.

Word: Hinder
Meaning: to hold back or to make difficult to accomplish
Example: Tight; restrictive clothing will work to hinder your athletic performance.

Word: Hindering
Meaning: holding back; making it difficult to accomplish something
Example: Jared’s large work truck was hindering him from going through the drive-thru.

Word: Hindering
Meaning: to slow down the progress of something
Example: Isn’t it suspicious how the widow is hindering the investigation of her husband’s death?

Word: Hindrance
Meaning: a person or thing that hinders
Example: My youngest sister is always more of a hindrance than a help when she tries to assist me with a task.

Word: Hindsight
Meaning: knowledge that is gained after an event has happened
Example: In hindsight; I wished I had taken my friend’s key when I discovered she had wrecked her car on the way home.

Word: Hinduism
Meaning: the top religion of India which supports a belief in numerous gods and the idea a person returns to life in a different form after dying
Example: In India; my family and I follow the religious practices of Hinduism by praying to many gods.

Word: Hint
Meaning: something that suggests something indirectly or secretly
Example: I could not tell my brother flat out that my mother was angry; so I had to use my facial expression as hint for him to be quiet.

Word: Hinterland
Meaning: the beyond a major town or port
Example: As the sun set; animals moved away from the coast and into the distant hinterland.

Word: Hiraeth
Meaning: wanting to go back to a home that was never home
Example: Cindy’s hiraeth to return to her childhood was strong because she wanted to change a big mistake that she made.

Word: Hirsute
Meaning: hairy
Example: The hirsute teenager was warned that he would be expelled from school if he did not take a haircut and pay attention to his grooming.

Word: Historic
Meaning: old and related to the past or history
Example: The historic home has been around since the pre-Civil War ear.

Word: Historical
Meaning: based or centered around history
Example: The historical book was based on things that happened in the early 19th century.

Word: Histrionic
Meaning: over the top with emotional responses
Example: When John does not take his psychiatric medicine; he might have a histrionic outburst about the smallest of things.

Word: Hitch
Meaning: to fasten or hook
Example: The boater needed to hitch his sailboat to his pick-up truck so that he could tow it to the lake.

Word: Hitherto
Meaning: up until this time or point
Example: Hitherto Jim got married and became a devoted spouse; his greatest pleasure had been picking up women.

Word: Hoard
Meaning: to collect a large amount of something
Example: Rob loves to hoard money because he is a penny-pincher.

Word: Hoard
Meaning: to stockpile or store things excessively
Example: Because he was starved when he was little; the abused child tries to hoard secret piles of food in his bedroom.

Word: Hoarding
Meaning: to gather; collect and store an overabundance of food or other items to be used in the future
Example: After finding out that the homeowner was hoarding lots of personal items; no one could walk around the mess or stand the horrible odor.

Word: Hoarse
Meaning: afflicted by a dry; quite harsh voice
Example: Jessica was unable to sing with the choir because her voice sounded hoarse.

Word: Hoary
Meaning: incredibly old
Example: The hoary house was built in the eighteenth century and is now part of a museum.

Word: Hoax
Meaning: a ploy or story used to trick a person or group
Example: The woman used a pregnancy hoax to trick her boyfriend into marrying her.

Word: Hobble
Meaning: to walk awkwardly because of pain or injury
Example: After falling and hurting her ankle badly; the volleyball player had to hobble over to a bench.

Word: Hobby
Meaning: a fun event or exercise done in someone’s free time
Example: Shopping has become a hobby for many women and girls; but it seems to be a very expensive way of spending their time.

Word: Hobnob
Meaning: to interact with those from another social class
Example: Middle class donors hobnob with celebrities at the charity gala.

Word: Hodgepodge
Meaning: a concoction or assortment of various things
Example: After many people dug through the different appetizers; the large platter was just a hodgepodge of different foods scattered all over the place.

Word: Hogwash
Meaning: nonsense; gibberish
Example: Marty told everyone he knew that he had been abducted by aliens; but every body thought his silly talk was hogwash.

Word: Hoi polloi
Meaning: a Greek saying that is used by the wealthy to refer to common people
Example: The city’s officials allow the ultra-wealthy; but not the hoi polloi inside their homes.

Word: Hoist
Meaning: to lift up or elevate
Example: We grabbed the flag and began to hoist it up the flagpole.

Word: Hoity-toity
Meaning: having an arrogant and vain attitude
Example: When the underdressed girl entered the hoity-toity boutique; the workers refused to wait on her because they thought she didn’t have enough money to buy their outfits.

Word: Hold up
Meaning: to remain strong or stable
Example: No matter how large or grand you make your sand castle; the chance that it will hold up against a wave from the ocean is very slim.

Word: Holiday
Meaning: a special day of celebration
Example: A holiday gathering is being planned so that we can celebrate Christmas as a family.

Word: Holistic
Meaning: focused on the whole aspect of something and not just one of its individual parts
Example: The holistic treatment prescribed by my doctor includes herbs and vitamins that will improve the overall functioning of my body.

Word: Hollow
Meaning: empty on the inside
Example: The empty inside of the hollow tree is the perfect home for squirrels and other forest animals.

Word: Holocaust
Meaning: the extermination of a large group of individuals or other living things by deliberate or natural means
Example: The forest fire was a holocaust that destroyed thousands of trees.

Word: Hologram
Meaning: a picture taken by a camera using light and not a lens to show a 3-dimensional item
Example: Since the photographer wanted the photograph to capture every facet of the tree; he took a hologram with a special camera.

Word: Homage
Meaning: an act performed to show respect
Example: As a sign of homage for the late president; government flags will be flown half-mast today.

Word: Home front
Meaning: the people and home country operations of a nation involved in the war
Example: During the war; the American home front supported the effort by sewing clothing and manufacturing ammunition.

Word: Home run
Meaning: a hit that flies into the outfield and is not caught or flies into the crowd and enables players on the bases to make it to home plate; earning a run
Example: When Barry Bonds hit his 762nd home run; he set the record for highest number in baseball history.

Word: Homebody
Meaning: a person who prefers staying at home over going to other places
Example: Although I enjoy going out on dates sometimes; I’m really a homebody who would rather be at the house.

Word: Homebrew
Meaning: beer or some other type of alcoholic drink made at home
Example: During the time that alcohol was outlawed; the bootleggers made homebrew and sold it out of their houses.

Word: Homely
Meaning: unattractive and plain in appearance
Example: The homely girl’s classmates thought she needed a makeover to make her more attractive.

Word: Homeostasis
Meaning: the tendency of the body to seek and maintain a condition of balance even when things change externally
Example: Homeostasis keeps the body’s temperature regulated at an average temperature of 98.6 degrees.

Word: Homestead
Meaning: a house together with surrounding land and buildings; especially on a farm
Example: They relocated to a new homestead; with more farmland and a larger house.

Word: Homework
Meaning: schoolwork that a student is required to do at home
Example: Don’t sign up for Mr. Martin’s class unless you want several hours of homework everyday.

Word: Homily
Meaning: a brief speech on a moral or religious subject
Example: People around the world watched as the pope delivered a homily on the subject of kindness.

Word: Homogeneity
Meaning: the state of being all the same or uniform in look/action
Example: Some parents were worried about the homogeneity of the students’ uniforms and preferred their children to have a unique wardrobe.

Word: Homogenous
Meaning: of the same kind or nature
Example: As races have mixed; the world’s population has become more and more homogenous.

Word: Homologous
Meaning: being alike in function or structure
Example: While rabbit and bird extremities are shaped in a different manner; the two animals do have bones which are alike or homologous.

Word: Homonym
Meaning: a word that shares either the same spelling or pronunciation of another word while having a different significance
Example: While a homonym may be pronounced exactly like another word; it will have a different meaning from that term.

Word: Homophobia
Meaning: dislike or prejudice against those who like the same sex (homosexuals)
Example: Some Christians use the Bible to defend their homophobia and mistreatment of gay people.

Word: Homophone
Meaning: A word that is pronounced the same as another word but has a different meaning or spelling (ex. “sea” and “see”.) 
Example: The English teacher that the word “tea” is a homophone of “tee” and although you might drink the first; you wouldn’t sip on the other.

Word: Homozygous
Meaning: matching in kind; often related to genetics 
Example: Because Will carries two matching alleles for blue eyes; he is homozygous for that physical characteristic.

Word: Hone
Meaning: to perfect a talent or skill
Example: The tennis player practices several hours a day to hone her skills.

Word: Honorable
Meaning: deserving of honor and praise because one is honest and full of integrity
Example: The honorable judge was known for his honest and fair treatment of everyone who entered his courtroom.

Word: Honorarium
Meaning: a small amount of money paid to someone for a service for which no official charge is made
Example: Each coach was paid an honorarium to cover their expenses and costs while away at games.

Word: Honorary
Meaning: a title or acclaim without having to go through the normal route to achieve it
Example: After his untimely death; the student was given an honorary degree.

Word: Honorific
Meaning: giving honor or respect
Example: The keynote speaker gave an honorific speech in which he expressed the respect he has for the president.

Word: Hoodwink
Meaning: to trick or deceive someone
Example: In an attempt to hoodwink the woman into opening the front door; the rapist pretended to be a police officer.

Word: Hoof
Meaning: the protective hard covering on the foot of some animals
Example: Dr. Hayman; our local veterinarian; took a look at the goat’s injured left hoof causing it to hold up his left back leg and limp around.

Word: Hooligan
Meaning: a young person; especially one who is part of a gang; who is always getting into trouble
Example: The hooligan is part of a teenage gang that runs around the city destroying property.

Word: Hoopla
Meaning: excitement or commotion surrounding a situation
Example: Embarrassed by all of the hoopla; the graduate turned red as her parents yelled her name from their seats.

Word: Hop
Meaning: to jump lightly using one’s feet
Example: With a little hop; my puppy leaped up onto my bed.

Word: Hope
Meaning: a feeling of optimistic desire for something to happen
Example: Even though it looked like the team would lose; the fan held onto hope that they might make a comeback.

Word: Hopeful
Meaning: believing a positive result will occur
Example: Danielle is hopeful she’ll get a good job after she graduates from college.

Word: Hopeless
Meaning: without hope; having no expectation of good
Example: Sitting in jail; Roy felt that his situation was hopeless without the slightest possibility that he would ever see the light of day.

Word: Horde
Meaning: a sizable group of people
Example: The store owner was unprepared for the horde of consumers who rushed into his store.

Word: Horizon
Meaning: the distant line separating the sky from the earth
Example: Watching the large sunset past the horizon created a sense of peace and calm for me.

Word: Horizontal
Meaning: flat/left-and-right
Example: After gaining weight; the woman felt that wearing clothes with horizontal stripes was off limits.

Word: Horoscope
Meaning: a forecast of a person’s future based on the alignment of stars and planets during their birth
Example: I’ve personally never put any stock in horoscopes; as I don’t see how the positions of celestial bodies could have anything to do with my future.

Word: Horrendous
Meaning: horrific; terrible
Example: The villagers were shocked that a boy so young could commit such a horrendous crime with no regard for human life.

Word: Horrid
Meaning: causing horror or dread
Example: I was jolted out of my sleep because of a horrid dream that left me sweating profusely.

Word: Horrified
Meaning: to be stunned for a scared or angry reason
Example: As there were several police cars at my house as I drove up; I was horrified to learn that my father was killed by an intruder.

Word: Horrify
Meaning: to fill someone with horror or shock them
Example: Many young boys like to horrify their female counterparts by doing gross things; such as eating dirt or touching worms or other silly shenanigans.

Word: Horripilation
Meaning: the raised bumps on a person’s skin usually caused by something cold or alarming
Example: Horripilation occurred on my arms when an eerie noise could be heard in the empty hallway of the haunted house.

Word: Hortatory
Meaning: supportive; encouraging
Example: The coach gave his players a hortatory speech to inspire them to play well.

Word: Horticulture
Meaning: the science of caring for gardens; gardening
Example: Bob enrolled in a class that teaches horticulture so that he can cultivate his garden.

Word: Hospice
Meaning: a residential home that offers care for the seriously ill
Example: In the mountains; a group of nuns operate a hospice where AIDS patients can die with dignity.

Word: Hospitable
Meaning: welcoming and warm to visitors
Example: The hospitable host of the bed and breakfast opens the front door for each of her guests.

Word: Host
Meaning: a person who receives or entertains guests
Example: The host met the restaurant diners at the door and seated them at the nearest table.

Word: Hostile
Meaning: unfriendly; menacing
Example: When the police officer pointed the gun at me; he looked quite hostile.

Word: Hotel
Meaning: a place where travelers pay to sleep overnight
Example: While traveling overnight; the Deans became tired and decided to rent a room at an interstate hotel.

Word: Hound
Meaning: to constantly chase or bother someone because you want to get something from them
Example: The bill collector continued to hound Javi by constantly calling him about his debt.

Word: Hour
Meaning: a period of time that equals 60 minutes
Example: In an hour the clock hand will move from the number 11 to the number 12.

Word: House arrest
Meaning: a person under house arrest has been officially ordered not to leave home
Example: While he is under house arrest; the felon is not allowed to leave his home except to go to work.

Word: House
Meaning: a home or other building where a person lives
Example: The contractor built the family a house with three bedrooms and three bathrooms.

Word: Household
Meaning: all of the people who live in the same home
Example: All of the people in my household have brown eyes except my son and me.

Word: Hovel
Meaning: a small house that is usually in a rundown state
Example: The homeless man lived in the abandoned hovel near the bridge.

Word: Hover
Meaning: to remain near a place or individual
Example: Because I was sick a lot when I was a child; my mother would always hover over me.

Word: Howbeit
Meaning: nonetheless; even though
Example: Howbeit I didn’t study last night I still believe I’ll do well on my test today.

Word:  However
Meaning: on the opposite side
Example: Janice gave me an interesting excuse for coming home late; however; I think she left the truth out of her story.

Word: Howitzer
Meaning: a smaller tank with many tires and a long barreled angled gun protruding out usually used in battle
Example: As the battle ensued; a howitzer crawled by pointing its deadly artillery in the direction of the enemy in order to completely annihilate the snipers in the house.

Word: Howling
Meaning: a loud; animalistic repetition of sound
Example: The howling of the wolves on the breeze sent chills up her spine.

Word: Hub
Meaning: the central part of an activity or region
Example: The software company hopes to be a technology hub that everybody goes to for their tech needs.

Word: Hubbub
Meaning: a loud disturbance coming from a number of sources 
Example: If you don’t like the hubbub of noisy drunks and loud televisions; avoid the pub around the corner.

Word: Hubris
Meaning: an excess of confidence; having too much pride and personal worth
Example: The leader of the cult had so much hubris he believed the government would never be able to capture him.

Word: Huddle
Meaning: to crowd together; typically for warmth or privacy
Example: A football team will often huddle together so they can discuss their game plan without the other team seeing or hearing it.

Word: Hue
Meaning: a shade of color
Example: Placing the cloth over the lamp produced a blue hue in our bedroom.

Word: Huff
Meaning: to blow air out loudly and with great force
Example: The Big Bad Wolf tried to blow the pig’s house down with a huff and a puff.

Word: Huge
Meaning: very large in size
Example: A huge elephant appeared in the grassland and frightened the other animals with its massive size.

Word: Hulking
Meaning: very large or heavy
Example: A hulking figure hid in the shadows; scaring passersby with his large frame.

Word: Hull
Meaning: the main part of a ship or boat
Example: The hull of a flat bottom boat is shaped differently than the body of other vessels.

Word: Hullabaloo
Meaning: an uproar or fuss
Example: After they won the national championship; there was a hullabaloo throughout the arena.

Word: Humane
Meaning: feeling or displaying worry about the misery of another 
Example: The newspaper article about the lack of humane treatment given to inmates led to the prison warden’s resignation.

Word: Humanism
Meaning: the belief individuals are good by nature and can solve all problems through reason 
Example: Because of my trust in humanism; I believe someone will return my lost wallet to me.

Word: Humanitarian
Meaning: concerned with people's welfare
Example: He was a humanitarian whose focus was eliminating homelessness.

Word: Humanity
Meaning: the attribute of being kind 
Example: A serial killer normally does not reveal any sign of humanity to his victims.

Word: Humble
Meaning: not thinking of yourself as better than other people; or of low social; administrative; or political rank
Example: After twenty years as a humble worker; he finally got the opportunity to lead.

Word: Humbly
Meaning: modestly and simply
Example: My sister humbly accepted blame and apologized quickly because she knew she did wrong.

Word: Humbug
Meaning: deceptive actions or words
Example: I took the playboy’s words of flattery as the humbug they were.

Word: Humdrum
Meaning: without excitement or variety; boring
Example: An exciting vacation would give me time away from my humdrum job.

Word: Humid
Meaning: containing sensible moisture (usually describing air or atmosphere)
Example: Summers on the east coast of the United States are much more humid than summers on the west coast.

Word: Humiliate
Meaning: to harm an individual’s self-respect or dignity
Example: My rival tried to humiliate me in front of the entire school.

Word: Humiliation
Meaning: the condition that occurs when one is made to feel embarrassed or like an idiot
Example: Sarah endured a great deal of humiliation when her peers made fun of her at the prom.

Word: Humility
Meaning: the state in which one does not view himself as being better than others
Example: During her speech; Jennifer showed her humility by acknowledging her film crew as the team who deserved the trophy.

Word: Hummock
Meaning: a plump mound of dirt
Example: At night; I rest my head on the hummock of dirt in the backyard and stare at the stars.

Word: Humorous
Meaning: funny; amusing
Example: The humorous video went viral after a few million-people found the dancing cat to be funny enough to share.

Word: Hunch
Meaning: a feeling or suspicion based on intuition and not necessarily facts
Example: The detective had a hunch that the killer was a woman; but had no real evidence to prove his guess.

Word: Hunch
Meaning: a feeling or guess based on intuition and not fact
Example: Allie had a hunch that C was the answer; so she guessed on the test.

Word: Hung Jury
Meaning: a jury that cannot agree on a verdict after extended deliberation
Example: Because the evidence surrounding the case was so controversial and vague; the end result was a hung jury; and the man on trial did not get convicted one way or another.

Word: Hungrily
Meaning: in a way that expresses a strong need for something; usually food
Example: The dog stared hungrily as I removed its food from the cupboard.

Word: Hunky-dory
Meaning: absolutely pleased and content
Example: Everything was hunky-dory at the wedding with the bride; groom; families and friends watching the ceremony on their perfect day.

Word: Hurdle
Meaning: an obstacle or difficulty
Example: The businessman had a great idea for a new restaurant; but lack of money was a hurdle that stood in his way.

Word: Hurl
Meaning: to fling or toss something powerfully
Example: When Sarah teased her little brother; he took the book in his hand and decided to hurl it at her breaking her nose.

Word: Hurly-burly
Meaning: very busy and noisy
Example: Wanting a much simpler life; the family left the hurly-burly city and moved to a small cottage on the lake with little commotion.

Word: Hurricane
Meaning: a large tropical storm with heavy rain and strong winds that spin in a circular manner
Example: Weather forecasters are tracking a hurricane with 75 mile-per-hour winds moving slowly towards the coast.

Word: Hurried
Meaning: rushed; sped
Example: Rushing through the hallway; the tardy students hurried past on another to get to class.

Word: Hurry
Meaning: to rush or move quickly
Example: On Christmas Eve; busy shoppers rush around the mall looking like last-minute gifts.

Word: Hurt
Meaning: to injure something
Example: Don was unable to finish his final football game because he hurt his knee.

Word: Hurting
Meaning: being in physical or emotional pain
Example: Even though his knee was hurting; the runner pushed through the pain and finished his meet.

Word: Hurtle
Meaning: move at a rapid pace in a wild manner
Example: The force of the truck caused the car to hurtle over the bridge.

Word: Hurtled
Meaning: moved at great speed
Example: When the team’s fastest player hurtled down the field; the crowd went wild.

Word: Husbandry
Meaning: the breeding and/or cultivation of animals and/or crops 
Example: Because we engage in husbandry and produce our own food; we do not have huge grocery store bills.

Word: Husky
Meaning: having an appearance that is strong or muscular
Example: The husky man showed off his massive muscles in the mirror as he exercised at the gym.

Word: Hussar
Meaning: a soldier from Hungary known for wearing vibrant attire
Example: It was disastrous for the Hungarian leaders to require each Hussar in their unit to wear a bright red jacket as part of his uniform when fighting in battle.

Word: Hustle and bustle
Meaning: loud commotion due to motions; sounds and movement
Example: Recent high school graduates from small towns usually become mesmerized with the noise and chaos of the hustle and bustle of the big city.

Word: Hustle
Meaning: to hurry or rush
Example: The hustle and bustle of the city during Christmastime makes it difficult to travel.

Word: Hut
Meaning: a one room; simple shelter made out of natural elements
Example: Building a small hut; the stranded sailors hoped their makeshift shelter would hold up.

Word: Hybrid
Meaning: made of mixed components 
Example: The hybrid fruit is a product of an orange and a tangerine.

Word: Hydraulic
Meaning: activated; transported; or influenced by water 
Example: The workers used hydraulic power to pressure wash the house.

Word: Hydroplane
Meaning: to skim the surface of water while moving at high speed
Example: As the rain poured; the trucker slowed his speed so he could lesson his chance of making the eighteen wheeler hydroplane.

Word: Hydrosphere
Meaning: waters of the Earth
Example: As important parts of the hydrosphere; lakes and rivers are important sources of freshwater.

Word: Hygiene
Meaning: practices or conditions that promote health through cleanliness
Example: A major part of your personal hygiene is brushing your teeth every day; which both keeps your teeth healthy and makes you more appealing to others.

Word: Hype
Meaning: to promote or publicize something
Example: As a way to hype up his popularity; the high school student spread a rumor that he was the best kisser.

Word: Hyperactive
Meaning: extremely or unusually overactive
Example: The hyperactive toddler ran around the daycare smashing toys and knocking things off of the wall.

Word: Hyperbole
Meaning: an extravagant exaggeration
Example: The main element of the product’s commercial was a hyperbole describing rapid weight loss.

Word: Hyperbolic
Meaning: related to language that is extremely exaggerated
Example: While Jim fought only one attacker during the mugging attempt; he changed his story into a hyperbolic tale by adding a few other attackers.

Word: Hypercritical
Meaning: overcritical; always finding fault
Example: The girl’s father is hypercritical; always finding fault in everything she does.

Word: Hypertonic
Meaning: a solution that contains more dissolved salt or electrolytes than is found in normal cells and blood
Example: The hypertonic solution was so salty that it could be safely ingested.

Word: Hyperventilate
Meaning: to breathe at a very rapid rate
Example: Erratic breathing while exercising can lead you to hyperventilate.

Word: Hyphenate
Meaning: to divide by a small line or dash
Example: Some people wrongfully hyphenate words like “un-covered” and “jelly-fish” because it doesn’t need a hyphen in them.

Word: Hypnosis
Meaning: a trancelike state of altered consciousness in which a person is more susceptible to suggestions
Example: Placing the patient into a state of hypnosis; the doctor was able to offer suggestions that would help him quit smoking.

Word: Hypnotic
Meaning: tending to induce sleep
Example: If I take too high a dosage of the medication; its hypnotic affect will cause me to drift into a deep sleep.

Word: Hypnotic
Meaning: mesmerizing; spell-binding
Example: After being placed in a trance; the sound of a spoon clicking against the teacup sent the victims into a hypnotic state.

Word: Hypnotize
Meaning: to fascinate in a way that captures one’s full attention
Example: The sway in the woman’s hips seemed to hypnotize the men who drooled as they stared.

Word: Hypochondriac
Meaning: one who believes he or she is always ill
Example: Because my uncle is a hypochondriac; he is quick to diagnose himself with a life-threatening illness.

Word: Hypocorism
Meaning: is a pet name or nickname
Example: Although his name was Barry; his hypocorism was the Flash.

Word: Hypocrisy
Meaning: the practice of professing standards; beliefs; etc; opposite to one's real character or actual behavior
Example: Students protested that the rule about cell phones was just a bunch of hypocrisy because teachers were always using their cell phones.

Word: Hypocritical
Meaning: describes behavior that goes against what one claims to believe
Example: The hypocritical protesters shouted threats to the abortion clinic workers but refused to financially support the mothers who give birth to the unwanted infants.

Word: Hypodermic
Meaning: associated with the area under the skin
Example: The drug addict stole hypodermic needles from the pharmacy.

Word: Hypotenuse
Meaning: the longest side of a right triangle
Example: Using the Pythagorean Theorem; the mathematician was able to find the triangle’s hypotenuse as well as its shorter sides.

Word: Hypothalamus
Meaning: a small part of the brain that controls the autonomic nervous system and the secretion of hormones
Example: After an injury to the hypothalamus region of his brain; the patient had trouble with his appetite and metabolism.

Word: Hypothecate
Meaning: to pledge property as security for a debt
Example: To get their son out of jail; the family had to hypothecate their property in lieu of a cash bond.

Word: Hypothermia
Meaning: a dangerous drop in body temperature brought on by cold temperature
Example: Most victims of the sinking of died not from drowning; but from hypothermia brought on by the icy water.

Word: Hypothesis
Meaning: a proposed explanation or theory that is studied through scientific testing
Example: The scientist’s hypothesis did not stand up; since research data was inconsistent with his guess.

Word: Hypothesize
Meaning: to come up with an educated guess based on prior knowledge or statistics
Example: Scientists hypothesize that the Big Bang Theory was not actually caused by a giant meteor but ozone depletion.

Word: Hypothetical 
Meaning: founded on a theory or idea that has not been verified as true
Example: For an assignment; each student had to write a response to a hypothetical scenario as though it had actually occurred.

Word: Hypothetically
Meaning: being considered as a possibility but not yet reality
Example: Hypothetically going through a black hole could lead us to an alternate universe; but we have no way of confirming that theory.

Word: Hypothyroidism
Meaning: a condition in which the thyroid gland doesn't produce enough of certain important hormones
Example: A diagnosis of hypothyroidism was given to the patient when bloodwork showed her thyroid gland was not producing adequate amounts of hormones.

Word: Hypotrophy
Meaning: gradual degeneration of an organ or tissue caused by a loss of cells
Example: Although hypotrophy involves the degeneration of tissue; it is a key part of building body muscle.

Word: Hypoxia
Meaning: a medical or scientific condition in which there are low levels of oxygen concertation in the body or water
Example: Sea life is all but suffocated when hypoxia causes oxygen depletion in the water.

Word: Hysteria
Meaning: a situation of unrestrained enthusiasm or intense fear
Example: The hostages were in a state of hysteria when they were rescued by the police.

Word: Hysterical
Meaning: affected by uncontrolled emotions
Example: The hysterical play kept the audience cackling the entire show.

Word: Hysterically
Meaning: done with uncontrolled or extreme emotions
Example: Out of the blue; the insane woman began to cackle hysterically.

Word: Hysterics
Meaning: an uncontainable crying or laughing spell
Example: The widow was in a state of hysterics at her husband’s funeral.

Word: Ibidem
Meaning: denotes a footnote citation that was already referenced in a prior footnote
Example: Because I had already written the footnote once; when it came up on another page later I simply marked it as Ibidem.

Word: Icicle
Meaning: a hanging piece of ice that is formed when dripping water freezes
Example: In order for an icicle to grow; a constant flowing stream of water must be moving over the ice.

Word: Icon
Meaning: a person who is very famous or popular
Example: Michael Jackson was a global icon; known around the world for his music and performing abilities.

Word: Iconic
Meaning: very famous or popular
Example: Iconic venues in the city draw in site-seers from all over the globe.

Word: Iconoclast
Meaning: someone who attacks the beliefs; customs; and opinions that most people in a society accept
Example: Because Jared was an iconoclast and dared to question the company’s mission; he was fired from his job.

Word: Idea
Meaning: a thought or opinion
Example: Each idea the intern offered was initially turned down by management; but later used without credit being given.

Word: Ideal
Meaning: perfect; model
Example: The ideal environment for the polar bear is somewhere with cold temperatures and plentiful amounts of ice.

Word: Idealism
Meaning: believing in or pursuing some perfect vision or belief that is unrealistic
Example: Steeped in idealism; most of the middle-aged woman’s financial goals were either impractical unrealistic.

Word: Idealist
Meaning: someone who pursues a certain idea or goal; even when it is unrealistic
Example: An idealist at heart; the woman agreed to the loan terms even though she knew the payments were too expensive for her budget.

Word: Idealize
Meaning: regard or represent as perfect or better than in reality 
Example: Jay Gatsby like to idealize his past relationship with Daisy as a fairy tale; when in reality they were constantly fighting.

Word: Ideation
Meaning: the forming of ideas
Example: Positive ideation can keep your mind centered and focused on the path ahead.

Word: Identical
Meaning: an exact copy
Example: The set of identical twins always confuse their teachers and sometimes their parents!

Word: Identification
Meaning: something that identifies a person; animal; or thing
Example: Showing identification to the clerk; the passenger was able to board the bus with no problem.

Word: Identify
Meaning: to select something based on noticeable characteristics
Example: Eyewitnesses were able to identify the suspect by the unusual tattoo he had in the middle of his forehead.

Word: Identity
Meaning: who someone is
Example: With a blonde wig and dark trench coat; the celebrity’s identity was unrecognizable.

Word: Ideogram
Meaning: a written symbol that represents an idea or object
Example: An ideogram with a cigarette and an X over it was placed on the door; warning patrons that no smoking was allowed in the building.

Word: Ideology
Meaning: principles or beliefs associated with a group or person
Example: When Jeff’s governmental ideology changed; he decided to start his own political party.

Word: Idiocy
Meaning: stupidity
Example: The intellectual community is appalled by the idiocy of those who do not acknowledge scientific research.

Word: Idiom
Meaning: a phrase or sentence that contains a meaning that is different than its individual words
Example: Even though the Japanese student knew every vocabulary word in the idiom; he failed to know what the expression meant.

Word: Idiomatic
Meaning: a phrase that is specific to a particular language or time period
Example: My grandmother loves idiomatic phrases like the pot calling the kettle black.

Word: Idiopathic
Meaning: relating to a disease that manifests spontaneously or that has no known cause
Example: Josh’s idiopathic arthritis arrived out of the blue when he was just 25 years old.

Word: Idiosyncrasy
Meaning: an odd habit or peculiar behavior; behavior or way of thought specific to an individual
Example: Her worst idiosyncrasy involved repeating back every word that was said to her.

Word: Idiosyncratic
Meaning: quirky or peculiar behavior or traits of an individual
Example: The strange bird let out a high-pitched sound that is idiosyncratic to its species.

Word: Idiot
Meaning: a stupid person
Example: The senseless idiot was able to solve the math problem one plus one.

Word: Idle
Meaning: not in use; inactive
Example: Since the taxi driver has not had any fares in a while; his car has been idle.

Word: Idleness
Meaning: inactivity; laziness
Example: The lazy sheep herder’s idleness caused him to fall asleep in the field while a wolf lurked nearby.

Word: Idly
Meaning: inactively; lazily
Example: The lazy boy stood idly by as the rest of his siblings helped unload the groceries from the car.

Word: Idol
Meaning: hero
Example: Ruby Bridges is an idol for young school girls around the world who admire her courage and bravery.

Word: Idolatry 
Meaning: extreme devotion to something or someone who is not a god
Example: It is sad how many people exhibit idolatry towards celebrities.

Word: Idolize
Meaning: to adore; admire; or love greatly
Example: The teen had begun to idolize the pop singer and had posters of them plastering her bedroom walls.

Word: Idyllic
Meaning: happy; peaceful; picturescue
Example: The tiny town by the sea is an idyllic place for the young couple to raise their twin daughters.

Word: Iffy
Meaning: uncertain or unsettled
Example: I am iffy on taking the job offer since the hours are long and the pay is a little low.

Word: Igneous
Meaning: solidified from lava or magma
Example: After the volcano erupted and lava covered the ground; many igneous rocks were created.

Word: Ignite
Meaning: to arouse or give energy to a situation
Example: The march in Selma was just what Dr. Martin Luther King needed to ignite others around the nation.

Word: Ignition
Meaning: the action of setting something on fire
Example: Firefighters suspected arson but could not located an ignition source.

Word: Ignoble
Meaning: not deserving respect; not honorable
Example: Because Frank has a habit of not showing up on time; he has an ignoble reputation as someone who is not very responsible.

Word: Ignominious
Meaning: very embarrassing; shameful or disgraceful
Example: When the boxer got knocked out in the first round; everyone knew it was the beginning of an ignominious defeat for him.

Word: Ignominy
Meaning: public shame or disgrace
Example: After being confronted about the theft; the official left the room in ignominy.

Word: Ignoramus
Meaning: someone who is completely uninformed
Example: The reporter proved he was an ignoramus when he gave out false information during the broadcast.

Word: Ignorance
Meaning: lack of knowledge; unawareness
Example: The woman’s ignorance regarding Hispanic culture led her to assume that everyone who speaks Spanish is Mexican.

Word: Ignorant
Meaning: lacking knowledge; uninformed
Example: My little sister was ignorant of the rules of the playground and pushed and shoved all of the other children.

Word: Ignore
Meaning: refusing to acknowledge someone or something
Example: My husband’s ability to ignore the television while sleeping is amazing to a light sleeper like myself.

Word: Ilk
Meaning: a type of individual who is similar to others in a certain category
Example: Only famous entertainers; athletes; and people of this ilk are allowed inside the VIP club area.

Word: Ill will
Meaning: wishing someone harm
Example: Despite the fact that William cheated on her; Briana wished him no ill will.

Word: Ill-Advised
Meaning: inadvisable; foolish; or unwise
Example: I think you would be ill-advised to go sky diving without a parachute; but if you don’t believe me I won’t have a chance to say I told you so.

Word: Ill-fated
Meaning: destined to fail; cursed with bad luck
Example: Romeo and Juliet’s ill-fated relationship was doomed from the day they laid eyes on one another.

Word: Illegality
Meaning: an act that is prohibited by law
Example: One illegality that we are all familiar with is murder; but some people seem to forget that littering and loitering are crimes as well.

Word: Illegible
Meaning: not clear enough to be read or understood
Example: The cashier refused to cash my check because she could not understand the check writer’s illegible signature.

Word: Illegitimate
Meaning: not authentic; genuine; official; or recognized as the real deal
Example: Deckson is considered an illegitimate son because he was born out of wedlock and not from the same father as the man his mother is married to.

Word: Illicit
Meaning: going against what is considered to be normal
Example: I dumped my boyfriend because of his illicit drug habit.

Word: Illiterate
Meaning: incapable of writing and reading
Example: The illiterate man could not complete the job application.

Word: Illness
Meaning: a disease or sickness of the body
Example: After coming down with a strange illness; the sick girl could no longer walk or talk.

Word: Illogical
Meaning: lacking sense or sound reasoning; contrary to logic
Example: An argument cannot be won with illogical reasoning.

Word: Illogical
Meaning: lacking sense or clear reasoning
Example: It is illogical to believe that someone could tell your future since there is little scientific proof that psychics are real.

Word: Illuminate
Meaning: to bring attention to or shine light upon
Example: Hopefully the justice department’s investigation will illuminate the police corruption in the small town.

Word: Illusion
Meaning: something that appears to look like something; but it actually is not
Example: The mirrored walls in the fun house created an optical illusion which made it difficult to walk afterwards.

Word: Illusive
Meaning: based on an illusion or something that isn’t real
Example: The pond the hiker saw in the distance was only an illusive mirage and not a real source of water.

Word: Illusory
Meaning: founded on something that is not genuine 
Example: Linda started an illusory friendship with her rival as part of her plan to destroy the girl’s reputation.

Word: Illustrate
Meaning: provide with pictures
Example: Once the preschool book was written; the artist was hired to carefully illustrate the book with a picture on every page.

Word: Illustrious
Meaning: respectable because of one’s accomplishments
Example: The leader of the country will recognize the illustrious scientist in a private ceremony.

Word: Image
Meaning: a visual representation of a person or object
Example: The camera was used to take a still-shot image of the fruit sitting on the table.

Word: Imagery 
Meaning: images of objects or people or words that convey these visuals in creative works
Example: The church refused the donated portrait because of the satanic imagery it contained.

Word: Imaginable
Meaning: feasible; possible; or able to be conceivably thought
Example: In the past; such a thing as spaceflight would not have been imaginable; but yet here we are; having visited the Moon.

Word: Imaginary
Meaning: existing only in the imagination; make-believe
Example: My family makes fun of me since I always had an imaginary friend when I was younger instead of befriending my classmates.

Word: Imagination
Meaning: the creative ability to form images; ideas; and sensations in the mind
Example: The creative writing teacher expected her students to use their imagination when writing their poems so that it would showcase their artistic talent.

Word: Imaginative
Meaning: containing original and interesting ideas
Example: Every applicant knew that the new job of instructional designer would require an imaginative mind in order to create such motivating lessons for middle schoolers.

Word: Imagine
Meaning: to visualize or see a picture of something in one’s mind
Example: When I’m sad; I close my eyes and imagine happier times to lift my spirits.

Word: Imbalance
Meaning: lack of balance or being out of proportion
Example: An imbalance of the number of men and women in Alaska makes it extremely difficult for a man to find a wife.

Word: Imbalance
Meaning: something that is out of proportion or off center
Example: An extreme vitamin imbalance gave the runner such high iron that her liver shut down.

Word: Imbecile
Meaning: a word used to describe a person who behaves in a stupid or foolish manner
Example: The teacher was reprimanded for referring to one of her students as an imbecile because he constantly asked silly questions.

Word: Imbibe
Meaning: to drink (used frequently of alcoholic beverages)
Example: Best practice dictates that anyone who intends to imbibe alcoholic beverages should make sure to have dependable transportation to get home.

Word: Imbroglio
Meaning: a confusing situation
Example: Will the treaty end this imbroglio that has kept the two countries at war for over sixty years?

Word: Imbue
Meaning: to cause to be strongly influenced by a quality or emotion
Example: After the terrorist bombings; the government placed several of the country’s flags at the site of the ruins to imbue patriotism.

Word: Imitate
Meaning: to copy or simulate the function of something else
Example: Young children will often attempt to imitate their parents; which is why you shouldn’t do anything you wouldn’t want your child to do while they’re watching.

Word: Imitation
Meaning: a copy or fake version of a genuine article or object
Example: Even though it’s an imitation; the copy of the painting sold for almost as much as the original.

Word: Immaculate
Meaning: without any blemish or imperfection
Example: Since I am having guests over for dinner; my house must be cleaned until it is immaculate.

Word: Immaterial 
Meaning: not relevant
Example: The judge told the jury to disregard the testimony because it was immaterial to the trial.

Word: Immature
Meaning: not fully developed to adulthood
Example: A human is immature for many years; having to go through nearly two decades of development before becoming an adult.

Word: Immediacy
Meaning: being immediate or urgent
Example: The manic man talks with immediacy as if his words are being driven by a motor.

Word: Immediate
Meaning: without delay; instant
Example: When code blue was announced on the intercom of the hospital; everyone noticed the immediate attention of every nurse was revealed as they ran for the door.

Word: Immense
Meaning: of a gigantic size
Example: The museum was so immense it took us two days to make our way through it.

Word: Immensity
Meaning: great size
Example: While hiking on a month-long mountainous trip; Davy felt the immensity of the wilderness.

Word: Immerse
Meaning: to become deeply involved in something
Example: To keep her mind off her divorce; Jill will immerse herself in work.

Word: Immersive
Meaning: surrounding a person in a way that makes them feel completely involved in the moment or process
Example: Many English programs adopt an immersive approach that requires the learner to be completely surrounded with people speaking the new language.

Word: Immigrant
Meaning: a person who comes to a country from another country in order to permanently settle there
Example: Since my grandfather was an immigrant from Sweden; he brought his Swedish culture and traditions to the United States with him.

Word: Immigrate
Meaning: to leave one country to permanently stay in another country
Example: Sari would like to immigrate to the United States and find a better life than the one she has in Syria.

Word: Immigration
Meaning: the act of permanently relocating to a different country
Example: During the immigration process; the Chinese citizen was permitted to move to France.

Word: Imminent
Meaning: likely to occur at any moment
Example: When the Secret Service arrived; everyone knew the president’s arrival was imminent.

Word: Immobile
Meaning: not moving; motionless
Example: After falling off of his porch; the elderly man became immobile and couldn’t move his leg.

Word: Immoderate
Meaning: excessive
Example: An immoderate amount of compliments was dished out towards the employer so that it seemed like the employee was simply trying to get a raise instead of speaking honestly.

Word: Immodest
Meaning: lacking modesty and decency
Example: Her immodest nature of thinking everyone was beneath her created an unfriendly atmosphere for her.

Word: Immolation
Meaning: the act of killing or sacrificing somebody
Example: Eating nothing but candy is a sure path towards immolation of your health.

Word: Immoral
Meaning: morally wrong
Example: Today it is considered immoral to murder someone; but during the ancient times murder was common.

Word: Immorality
Meaning: state or quality of being immoral or evil
Example: Several students at the school were suspended due to the immorality of their conduct when they pushed and made fun of a special needs student.

Word: Immortal
Meaning: one who is not susceptible to death
Example: Angels are immortal beings; incapable of death.

Word: Immovable
Meaning: unable to be moved
Example: The bumbling robbers became quickly aware that the ATM machine was securely fixed to an immovable wall so that it could not be taken.

Word: Immune
Meaning: exempt or protected from something unpleasant
Example: Since I have been a teacher; I have not been sick one day due to being immune from most childhood sicknesses after countless exposure.

Word: Immunity
Meaning: freedom from punishment or prosecution
Example: Since the accomplice lied on the stand; he is not eligible for immunity and may serve time in jail.

Word: Immunization
Meaning: the process of protecting a person against an illness; typically by vaccine
Example: After receiving my shots; I knew my immunization records would be up-to-date which would allow me to register for school.

Word: Immunize
Meaning: to make something immune or invulnerable to something else
Example: We use vaccination to immunize the human body; making it highly resistant to certain contagions like the flu.

Word: Immunoglobulin
Meaning: any of the glycoproteins in blood serum that respond to invasion by foreign antigens and that protect the host by removing pathogens
Example: An immunoglobulin was detected in the man’s body that seemed to fight off his disease before it spread.

Word: Immure
Meaning: to lock up behind walls
Example: Caught robbing a bank; Jason knew the police would immure him in a jail cell for an extended period of time.

Word: Immutable
Meaning: unable to be changed
Example: Although I tried to get the bank president to change his mind about giving me the loan; I finally realized his decision was immutable.

Word: Imp
Meaning: a badly behaved child
Example: As the new teacher walked into the classroom; she realized the boy in front would be an imp not just the class clown.

Word: Impact
Meaning: have a strong effect on someone or something
Example: Rising pollution and increased burning of fossil fuels has had a huge impact on global warming.

Word: Impair
Meaning: damage or weaken something
Example: Alcohol can greatly impair your judgement.

Word: Impairment
Meaning: an injury or damage
Example: Following his car accident; the man suffered an impairment in which he could only walk with the help of a crutch.

Word: Impale
Meaning: to pierce with something sharp
Example: During the horror movie; the knife would impale the girl through the heart killing her instantly.

Word: Impalpable
Meaning: not capable of being physically touched
Example: While you can view the signs of love; you can’t touch love because it’s impalpable.

Word: Impart
Meaning: to distribute a portion of something
Example: A teacher’s job is to impart knowledge to her students.

Word: Impartial
Meaning: to not offer influence to any side 
Example: Since the judge is related to the defendant; it is not possible for him to be impartial during the trial.

Word: Impassable
Meaning: impossible to travel along
Example: Without having shoulders on the highway; the stalled car made it impassable for any traffic to go through to the next town.

Word: Impasse
Meaning: a situation that prevents advancement
Example: Yesterday; the two parties did not make any progress on the contract terms because they had reached an impasse.

Word: Impassioned
Meaning: overflowing with strong emotion
Example: The widow’s impassioned speech brought the members of congress to their feet.

Word: Impassive
Meaning: having; or revealing; no emotion; expressionless
Example: Even though it was very exciting; Jon delivered the news in an impassive voice in the hope that everyone would stay calm.

Word: Impatient
Meaning: restless or irritated under delay or opposition
Example: After waiting for half an hour in line; the impatient customer stormed out of the store and called the manager to complain.

Word: Impavid
Meaning: extreme courage or bravery
Example: Mongols were impavid warriors who rode into dangerous battles without a thought of death.

Word: Impeach
Meaning: to charge a public official with a crime
Example: Without sufficient evidence; you cannot hope to impeach a public official.

Word: Impeccable
Meaning: perfect in every way
Example: With your impeccable English skills; writing essays should be a cinch.

Word: Impecunious
Meaning: lacking money; penniless
Example: Since Janice grew up in an impecunious household; she knew a great deal about surviving on very little.

Word: Impede
Meaning: to interfere with or slow the progress of
Example: If you do not eat while you are sick; the lack of nutrients will impede your recovery.

Word: Impediment
Meaning: something that interferes with a person’s ability to complete a task
Example: My broken wrist is the impediment preventing me from finishing my new novel.

Word: Impedimenta
Meaning: oversized gear that makes it awkward to carry
Example: While boarding the small airplane; I held up the line of people going to their seats as I tried to shove my impedimenta for my skiing trip into the small overhead bin.

Word: Impel
Meaning: to drive an individual to perform in a certain way
Example: The manufacturer hopes its commercial will impel us to purchase its new product.

Word: Impending
Meaning: going to occur; coming
Example: When I refused to pay the fake fortuneteller; she warned me of impending doom in my future.

Word: Impenetrable
Meaning: not capable of being entered
Example: If the castle is truly impenetrable; our enemies will never gain access to the king.

Word: Impenitent
Meaning: unapologetic; remorseless
Example: Even after being sentenced to life in prison; the impenitent man was not sorry for his crimes.

Word: Imperative
Meaning: essential
Example: If you’re serious about getting healthy; it’s imperative that you follow a healthy lifestyle; make the right food choices; and exercise regularly.

Word: Imperceptible
Meaning: not perceptible by a sense or by the mind
Example: When I had my headphones over my ears; the noise outside was imperceptible.

Word: Imperfect
Meaning: not perfect
Example: After misrepresenting herself on her resume; it was obvious to the company that she was really an imperfect candidate for the job.

Word: Imperfection
Meaning: a defect or flaw
Example: An imperfection in the painting surprisingly made it more valuable to collectors.

Word: Imperial
Meaning: relating to an empire; emperor; or the concept of imperialism
Example: If a member from an imperial family approaches you; then your response should be to bow before them.

Word: Imperialism
Meaning: a course of action that involves vigorously expanding a nation’s power over other countries by any means necessary
Example: The country’s inability to embrace imperialism is responsible for its lack of geographical expansion over the years.

Word: Imperil
Meaning: to be in danger of something or someone
Example: Although most people do see the threat; littering in the ocean can imperil many different marine life like dolphins due to their ingestion of plastic litter.

Word: Imperious
Meaning: domineering; expecting ones' orders to be followed
Example: The principal is an imperious woman who expects to be obeyed.

Word: Imperishable
Meaning: to last forever or at least for a long time
Example: To survive the Apocalypse; the worried man stockpiled his cellar with an array of imperishable products like dried beans and powdered milk.

Word: Impermanence
Meaning: the state of being temporary
Example: The impermanence of the new the car’s smell caused the woman to buy air fresheners.

Word: Impermeable
Meaning: not allowing substances to pass through
Example: The impermeable rain coat kept water from ruining the woman’s cashmere sweater.

Word: Impermissible
Meaning: not allowed
Example: The student knew having her cell phone at school was impermissible but brought it anyway.

Word: Impersonal
Meaning: having no interest in other people and lacking warmth or emotion; cold
Example: Breaking up with me over text was a very impersonal way to end our relationship.

Word: Impersonally
Meaning: remaining neutral and not showing feelings or personality
Example: Cookout invitations were sent out impersonally through a group text.

Word: Impersonate
Meaning: to deliberately act or appear like someone else
Example: Most people try to impersonate Elvis Presley by wearing a sparkling jumpsuit; dark sunglasses; and jet black hair; in addition to singing one of his songs.

Word: Impertinent
Meaning: behaving without proper respect; rude
Example: Although she thought she was just being funny; her teacher didn’t agree and sent her to the principal’s office for being impertinent.

Word: Imperturbable
Meaning: not disturbed or excited easily
Example: The imperturbable actress carried on with her performance even when her costar forgot his lines.

Word: Impervious
Meaning: not allowing something to enter or pass through
Example: Let us hope these thin walls are impervious to the freezing cold tonight!

Word: Impetuous
Meaning: acting without thinking—done impulsively; sudden decision
Example: His impetuous behavior landed him in prison.

Word: Impetus
Meaning: a force that causes something to be done or to become more active
Example: The high crime rate was the impetus for the hiring of one hundred new police officers in our city.

Word: Impiety
Meaning: lack of respect for God
Example: Speaking with impiety of holy things was a crime in the city-state; but few were ever prosecuted.

Word: Impinge
Meaning: to produce an effect; usually an unwanted one
Example: Hopefully the bad weather will move in a different direction and not impinge upon our plans for an outdoor reception.

Word: Impious
Meaning: lacking reverence or respect; especially towards a god
Example: His lack of protocol in the church caused him to gain a reputation for being impious.

Word: Impish
Meaning: acting in a childish way like a rascal
Example: As the strict businessman walked down Main Street; he took notice of the group of impish teenagers ahead of him yelling at the passersby.

Word: Implacable
Meaning: not capable of being appeased
Example: The little boy was implacable when his parents left him alone with the babysitter.

Word: Implant
Meaning: to embed or establish something in a fixed position
Example: When the stubborn child would get upset with his mother for not getting his wish; he would implant his foot firmly on the rug with a scowl on his face.

Word: Implausible
Meaning: unlikely or questionable
Example: The drug manufacturer was fined for making implausible claims about its weight loss products.

Word: Implement
Meaning: to put into effect
Example: The computer programmer estimates it will take twenty hours to implement the code changes in the software.

Word: Implementation
Meaning: the process of executing or putting a plan into motion
Example: Many people are calling for a nationwide gun registry; but implementation of such a program would be difficult.

Word: Implicate 
Meaning: to hint a person or object is responsible for something; often an illegal deed
Example: If the evidence is found; it will implicate the person behind the brutal act.

Word: Implication
Meaning: an idea or belief that is suggested from something else
Example: Cheryl’s hiding of her report card gave me the implication she had failed at least one of her classes.

Word: Implicit
Meaning: understood though not clearly or directly stated
Example: Although you never stated I could use your car; your permission was implicit when you handed me your car keys.

Word: Implode
Meaning: to explode inward
Example: Everyone was shocked to see the loving couple’s relationship implode and end in divorce.

Word: Implored
Meaning: sincerely begged 
Example: The little boy implored his kidnapper to let him go.

Word: Imply
Meaning: to hint at something without directly stating or presenting
Example: When I said I would never wear a blue dress; I was not trying to imply blue was not a good color choice for you.

Word: Impolite
Meaning: being rude
Example: Her impolite ways of constantly interrupting me every time I spoke made me want to avoid her at any cost.

Word: Impolitely
Meaning: doing something rudely or without manners
Example: Lucas impolitely burped at the table during dinner and failed to excuse himself.

Word: Impolitic
Meaning: foolish
Example: I realized it was an impolitic idea to talk on my cell phone and walk through a curvy path in the woods since I am aware of my clumsiness and no sense of direction.

Word: Imponderable
Meaning: difficult or impossible to comprehend or evaluate
Example: She wanted to enter the contest but guessing the amount of jelly beans in the barrel was imponderable.

Word: Import
Meaning: to bring in from a foreign country
Example: Due to the high tariffs placed on goods; the company decided to buy the raw materials in the United States instead of deciding to import them.

Word: Importance
Meaning: the value or substance of something
Example: The doctor always stresses to his patients the importance of a healthy diet and lots of exercise.

Word: Importance
Meaning: being of great value or worth
Example: The doctor explained the importance of eating healthy meals and getting rest to the sick patient.

Word: Importunate
Meaning: demanding in an annoying way
Example: My mother left her husband because he was an importunate man who treated her like an unpaid servant.

Word: Importune
Meaning: to request (someone) pressingly and persistently for or to do something
Example: Even after I had politely declined and shut the door; I could hear the salesman continuing to importune me to let him demonstrate the expensive vacuum cleaner.

Word: Impose
Meaning: to apply controls or rules
Example: To maintain order; the prison warden will impose as many rules as necessary to keep the inmates in line.

Word: Imposition
Meaning: an unreasonable and burdening demand or request
Example: Mary’s nature of imposition by always asking her co-workers to do her work caused her to lose her job.

Word: Impossibility
Meaning: the condition of something not being able to be done
Example: Elizabeth’s boss was classified as a scrooge by his employees; and Elizabeth saw the impossibility to make the job worthwhile.

Word: Impossible
Meaning: not possible; not able to be done or happen
Example: The employees grew angry with their boss for assigning such an impossible task of creating the monthly reports overnight.

Word: Impossibly
Meaning: in a way that is unnecessary or ridiculously extreme
Example: Because the line to get into the restaurant was impossibly long; the couple decided to eat at a different café.

Word: Imposter
Meaning: a person who pretends to be someone else in order to trick and deceive people
Example: The imposter mimicked our dad’s voice to perfection.

Word: Imposture 
Meaning: the act of deceiving while using a fake identity 
Example: The scam artist’s imposture involved convincing elderly people he could increase their retirement incomes for a small fee.

Word: Impotent
Meaning: lacking in power; as to act effectively; helpless
Example: When my husband was diagnosed with cancer; I felt impotent because I could not help him with his pain.

Word: Impound
Meaning: to remove and keep property by law
Example: After stopping payments on their new car; the bank would impound their car in a secured lot until the couple would pay the overdue amount.

Word: Impoverished
Meaning: wiped out financially; poor
Example: The impoverished girl knew she did not have enough money to attend college.

Word: Impractical
Meaning: not reasonable because it is unlikely to happen 
Example: Even though his son was very smart; it was impractical for the father to believe his son could learn quantum physics while in kindergarten.

Word: Incidentally
Meaning: by the way
Example: Incidentally; Joan is no longer returning my phone calls since she borrowed money from me.

Word: Incinerate
Meaning: destroy by burning
Example: If an atom bomb was dropped over Manhattan; the whole city would incinerate in a flash.

Word: Incipient
Meaning: just beginning to appear or develop
Example: Because the incipient plan has no backup measure; there is no chance it will succeed.

Word: Incised
Meaning: cut carefully with a sharp tool
Example: Using a scalpel; the surgeon incised the woman’s stomach and removed the tumor from her body.

Word: Incisive
Meaning: clear and direct; sharp
Example: The teacher’s incisive tone made it clear that she was done playing games.

Word: Incite
Meaning: to stir up or excite
Example: The racist man tried to incite hatred in his children by telling them falsehoods about minority groups.

Word: Inclement
Meaning: unpleasant weather in being stormy; rainy; or snowy
Example: Inclement weather is causing us to postpone our picnic.

Word: Inclination
Meaning: the tendency to act or feel a certain way about something or someone
Example: A coward’s natural inclination is to walk away from a fight.

Word: Incline
Meaning: a surface or area that tends to go upward
Example: Because of my knee injury; it is difficult for me to walk up the incline.

Word: Include
Meaning: to make something part of a greater whole
Example: We wanted to include the new transfer student; so we invited him to sit with us at lunch on his first day.

Word: Inclusion
Meaning: the act of adding a person or thing to a situation or agreement
Example: The inclusion of the harp in the orchestra will enhance future performances.

Word: Inclusive
Meaning: covering every person and every aspect of a situation
Example: The comprehensive insurance plan is inclusive of both medical and emergency cancellation policies.

Word: Incognito
Meaning: without revealing one's identity; in disguise
Example: Even stars who go out incognito are often recognized by the public and hounded by the paparazzi.

Word: Incoherent
Meaning: not logical or easily understood
Example: After drinking too much at the party; Larry became incoherent and made very little sense.

Word: Income
Meaning: money that is earned/brought in monthly
Example: After losing his job; Mr. Davis had to find a new way to get income flowing in every month.

Word: Incommodious
Meaning: not comfortable; unpleasant
Example: I sat on the floor because the lumpy couch was incommodious.

Word: Incommunicado
Meaning: not in a position where one can communicate with other individuals
Example: During our honeymoon; my husband and I will be incommunicado.

Word: Incomparable
Meaning: without equal
Example: To me my favorite chocolate is incomparable.

Word: Incompatible
Meaning: not able to peacefully exist in the same area
Example: Because my husband and I were incompatible; our marriage ended after two weeks.

Word: Incompetent
Meaning: unskilled; not capable
Example: The robber was so incompetent he locked himself in the bank vault.

Word: Incomprehensible
Meaning: impossible or difficult to understand
Example: After hearing to the incomprehensible rap; listeners were left wondering what the musician meant.

Word: Inconceivable
Meaning: impossible to believe
Example: It is inconceivable that the young boy walked twenty miles without shoes in freezing weather.

Word: Inconclusive
Meaning: not conclusive; not leading to a conclusion
Example: The blood test was inconclusive for any diseases; so they wanted to redraw blood.

Word: Incongruent 
Meaning: mismatched; unsuited
Example: Because the two ingredients are incongruent; they will not create a tasty dressing.

Word: Incongruous
Meaning: out of place; inconsistent or incompatible
Example: How incongruous of a fat doctor telling me to lose weight!

Word: Inconsequential
Meaning: not important or significant
Example: When you walk with your head down and eyes lowered; you come across as being inconsequential.

Word: Inconsiderable
Meaning: minor; small or unimportant
Example: With such an inconsiderable injury; the athlete simply continued to play the game since he knew the scratch in his leg wouldn’t cause him any problems.

Word: Inconsiderate
Meaning: not considerate of others; thoughtless
Example: It is inconsiderate to leave a mess for someone else to clean up.

Word: Inconsistent 
Meaning: not occurring in a specific pattern
Example: The weather pattern is too inconsistent to be predictable.

Word: Inconsolable
Meaning: not capable of being consoled
Example: The old man was inconsolable at his wife’s funeral.

Word: Inconspicuous
Meaning: not easily observed
Example: The celebrity hoped she looked inconspicuous so her fans would not approach her in the grocery store.

Word: Inconstancy
Meaning: infidelity; unfaithfulness
Example: Known for his inconstancy; the married man had children with women all over town.

Word: Incontinent
Meaning: inability to control ones actions or hold back from something desired
Example: Someone who has Tourette syndrome is considered incontinent because they have little to no control over repeated words or sudden movements.

Word: Incontrovertible
Meaning: cannot deny or disprove; unable to change form
Example: How can you deny the incontrovertible proof staring you in the face?

Word: Inconvenience
Meaning: a disruption; bother; or annoyance
Example: Because I hate the cold; having to sit under the air conditioning vent at work is an inconvenience.

Word: Inconvenient
Meaning: causing difficulties or troubles
Example: The car accident was an inconvenient start to my holiday weekend.

Word: Incorporate
Meaning: to include or mix
Example: In order to provide a complete report; Henry and his staff incorporate the graphs and charts into the written text.

Word: Incorporated
Meaning: included; combined
Example: The bride was insistent that the wedding planner make sure that red; white; and blue were incorporated in her big day.

Word: Incorporeal
Meaning: lacking form or substance
Example: Most believe the soul to be incorporeal; as it can exist without a physical shell.

Word: Incorrect
Meaning: not accurate
Example: Each incorrect answer caused the team to lose fifty points from the score board.

Word: Incorrigible
Meaning: not capable of being reformed
Example: Because my daughter’s behavior is incorrigible; she might be grounded for at least a year.

Word: Incorruptible
Meaning: having integrity that cannot be corrupted
Example: The incorruptible jury member refused to be pressured into voting not guilty by the defendant’s family members.

Word: Increase
Meaning: made greater in size or amount
Example: An increase in the amount of the loan made it possible for the car shoppers to purchase the vehicle they really wanted.

Word: Increasingly
Meaning: progressively
Example: As the city continues to grow; it is increasingly harder to find a parking spot down town.

Word: Incredible
Meaning: so extraordinary that is seems impossible
Example: An incredible act of kindness; a stranger off the street offered to donate a kidney for the ill teenager.

Word: Incredibly
Meaning: to a great extent
Example: The woman was incredibly sorry that she took the job offer once she realized the company was going out of business in a few months.

Word: Incredibly
Meaning: very; extremely
Example: The puny teenager found it incredibly difficult to pick up the heavy barbell from the floor.

Word: Incredulity
Meaning: a feeling of not being able to believe something or of not wanting to believe it
Example: When the UFO appeared above my house; I was speechless with incredulity.

Word: Incredulous
Meaning: unbelievable; cannot accept as true
Example: The lottery winner was incredulous and could not believe his good fortune.

Word: Incredulously
Meaning: in a way that shows disbelief or skepticism
Example: All of the audience shook their heads incredulously as the unattractive contestant was crowned beauty queen.

Word: Increment 
Meaning: a degree by which something is increased or enlarged
Example: In prison; one phone increment is ten minutes.

Word: Incriminate
Meaning: to suggest an individual has done something inappropriate or illegal
Example: The man refused to talk because he did not want to incriminate himself in court.

Word: Incubate
Meaning: to keep eggs safe and warm so they can grow and hatch
Example: Like some other snakes; pythons incubate their eggs by coiling their bodies over them.

Word: Incubation
Meaning: the process of warming eggs so that they will hatch
Example: Farmers often take on the incubation process themselves since modern day hens are not always attentive to their eggs.

Word: Incubator
Meaning: a specialized crib that is used to care for infants or eggs; in which the temperature and oxygen content of the air can be controlled
Example: The eggs in the incubator must be kept at a temperature of 99.5 for proper growth and development.

Word: Incubus
Meaning: a demon or evil spirit supposed to descend upon sleeping women in order to have sex with them
Example: In the myth; the incubus surprised sleeping women with sexual advances.

Word: Inculcate
Meaning: to frequently instill an idea or belief firmly in someone's mind
Example: In order to inculcate a love of reading; the teacher encourages her students to read different types of literature.

Word: Inculpate
Meaning: to incriminate or accuse someone of doing something
Example: Evidence was used to inculpate the suspects and lead to their eventual conviction.

Word: Incumbent
Meaning: the person or group that currently has the title or position
Example: After twenty years in office; the incumbent politician is finally retiring from politics.

Word: Incur
Meaning: acquire
Example: It was impossible to incur any debt after a year of being unemployed.

Word: Incurable
Meaning: not having the ability to be remedied or healed
Example: When Sally found out she had an incurable and terminal disease; her family decided to help her do everything on her bucket list before she died.

Word: Incurious
Meaning: uninterested; unconcerned
Example: I was surprised that my parents were so incurious in this semesters grades since they usually pester me about my scores.

Word: Incurred
Meaning: having gained something; usually something unpleasant; because of one’s own actions
Example: Because I made too many long distance calls while out of the country; I incurred many different charges on my phone bill.

Word: Incurring
Meaning: acquiring or causing yourself to come into
Example: The company was careful with its firing practices because management feared incurring costly law suits.

Word: Incursion
Meaning: an entry into an area that does not belong to the entrants
Example: When the troops made an incursion across the border; they ruined any chance for peace between the two countries.

Word: Indebted
Meaning: obligated or committed to paying someone back for something
Example: The businessman makes his money by giving indebted people large loans to pay back their debts to others.

Word: Indecent
Meaning: offensive; crude
Example: The crazy old cook was charged with indecent exposure after pulling his pants down and peeing on a stop sign.

Word: Indecipherable
Meaning: illegible; incomprehensible
Example: Signing his indecipherable signature; the doctor’s name was barely legible.

Word: Indecision
Meaning: unable to decide between choices
Example: The politician’s indecision in policy ties caused him to lose the votes of both the Republicans and Democrats.

Word: Indecisive
Meaning: hesitant; wavering
Example: An indecisive shopper; the customer could not choose between the two dresses she liked.

Word: Indecorous
Meaning: not proper; inappropriate
Example: Everyone was shocked when Gail wore the indecorous outfit to the church party.

Word: Indicate 
Meaning: to highlight or show
Example: The green light will indicate the strength of the batteries.

Word: Indication
Meaning: sign; signal
Example: There was no indication that a break-in had occurred other than the broken window at the back of the house.

Word: Indicative
Meaning: serving as a sign; indication or suggestion of something
Example: The child’s anger problems were likely indicative of a deeper issue.

Word: Indictment
Meaning: accusation
Example: There are some people who truly believe that the recent natural disasters are an indictment against Man’s lack of respect for the planet.

Word: Indifferent
Meaning: not interested in or concerned about something
Example: As political aides; we are going door-to-door in hopes of getting indifferent voters to come out to the polls.

Word: Indigence
Meaning: a state of extreme poverty and lack
Example: High medical costs are a significant cause of indigence for many of the elderly who are living in poverty.

Word: Indigene
Meaning: an indigenous person that is a native of a certain place
Example: While sitting around the campfire; the Australian indigene told his grandchildren the stories of his native ancestors.

Word: Indigenous
Meaning: produced; living; or existing naturally 
Example:  The class of students enjoyed learning about unusual animals that are indigenous and found naturally in the wild in North America.

Word: Indigent
Meaning: extremely poor
Example: The indigent man could not afford food or clothing.

Word: Indigestion
Meaning: pain in the stomach area that is associated with digesting food
Example: Chewing your food more before swallowing can help prevent the pain of indigestion during digestion.

Word: Indignant
Meaning: angry because of an unfair situation or someone's unfair behavior
Example: If I’m indignant; it’s because you threw that book at me!

Word: Indignity
Meaning: a situation or event that makes an individual feel embarrassment
Example: I felt as though I suffered a huge indignity when my ex husband brought his young girlfriend to my birthday party.

Word: Indigo
Meaning: dark blue
Example: Using the plant to dye her clothing indigo; the young woman admired her dark blue gown.

Word: Indirect
Meaning: secondary; unintentional
Example: Indirect exposure to cigarette smoke can still lead to lung cancer.

Word: Indiscernible
Meaning: difficult or impossible to see; notice; or hear
Example: Due to the foggy weather conditions; the camp pictures were so indiscernible.

Word: Indiscreet
Meaning: having a penchant for revealing secrets or acting without subtlety
Example: My indiscreet friend has a habit of blurting out pretty much everything; including all of the secrets she is not supposed to tell.

Word: Indiscrete
Meaning: not divisible or able to be separated into distinct parts
Example: The rock was indiscrete; breaking into small pieces when the lab tech tried to divide it.

Word: Indiscretion
Meaning: lack of good judgment or foolish behavior
Example: After spilling his wife’s secret; he was punished for his indiscretion.

Word: Indiscriminate
Meaning: done without consideration
Example: Becca regretted her indiscriminate choice in men when her boyfriend cleared out her bank account.

Word: Indispensable
Meaning: vital; essential 
Example: Cara does so much work in the office that she is indispensable to the productive running of the business.

Word: Indisposed
Meaning: not feeling well
Example: Because Maggie is indisposed with a high fever; she will not be attending the banquet.

Word: Indisputable
Meaning: not subject to doubt
Example: It is an indisputable fact smoking cigarettes can increase the risk of lung cancer.

Word: Indissoluble
Meaning: indestructible; not possible to dissolve; disintegrate or break-up
Example: The bond between the sisters was indissoluble as they were rarely apart.

Word: Indistinguishable
Meaning: difficult to tell apart
Example: Fred was indistinguishable to his classmates since his twin brother was standing next to him.

Word: Individual
Meaning: separate; single
Example: Each individual egg was filled with candy and other treats for the children.

Word: Individualism
Meaning: uniqueness; distinctiveness
Example: The bride’s need for individualism led her to seek out a dress that was exotic.

Word: Individuality
Meaning: the qualities that make a person or thing unique
Example: Because he chose an original monologue; his individuality set him apart from the other actors during the audition.

Word: Indivisible
Meaning: united; inseparable
Example: Though some try to forget it; topic of slavery is indivisible from the story of our country’s history.

Word: Indoctrinate
Meaning: to convince people to believe a certain idea or concept
Example: The cult leader will indoctrinate his followers with his beliefs.

Word: Indoctrination
Meaning: the process of teaching or brainwashing a person into believing something without question
Example: A few men in the city resisted communist indoctrination efforts; but most were programmed to side with the government.

Word: Indolent
Meaning: wanting to avoid activity or exertion; lazy
Example: Jackson lost his job because he was an indolent employee who did nothing but sleep at his desk all day.

Word: Indomitable
Meaning: not capable of being defeated
Example: Even when my father was stricken with cancer; he remained an indomitable force who never stopped fighting to live a normal life.

Word: Indubitable
Meaning: without doubt; undisputable
Example: Since Woods has over ninety percent of the votes; it is an indubitable fact he is our new legislator.

Word: Indubitably 
Meaning: in a manner that leaves no possibility of doubt; unquestionably
Example: The young prodigy is indubitably talented; but he doesn’t have the stage presence to go with his talent.

Word: Induce
Meaning: to bring about or lead by persuasion
Example: Sharon read somewhere that one can induce childbirth by smoking a cigarette; but her doctor strongly urged her against attempting something so foolhardy.

Word: Inducement
Meaning: something that persuades someone to do something
Example: As an incentive for the workers; the company offered an inducement to encourage them to remain accident free.

Word: Induction
Meaning: a formal ceremony in which a person is appointed to an office or into military service
Example: The Girl Scout Induction Ceremony was taking place at the local meeting hall.

Word: Indulge
Meaning: to give in to one’s desires or wants 
Example: If Al does not indulge in his coffee every morning; he finds it hard to concentrate at work.

Word: Indulgent
Meaning: A person who gives others permission and gifts regardless of the consequences
Example: My indulgent parents give me everything I want.

Word: Industrial Revolution
Meaning: the rapid development of industry that occurred in the late 18th and 19th centuries; brought about by the introduction of machinery
Example: During the Industrial Revolution; a majority of the population shifted from rural farming areas to industrialized cities.

Word: Industrial
Meaning: having highly developed factories; mechanical production; or consumer output
Example: First world countries are almost always industrial; having complex factories capable of mass producing almost anything that they desire.

Word: Industrialization
Meaning: the steps a nation takes to modernize itself while developing industries
Example: While industrialization increased processing times; it also reduced the labor force and left many people without much-needed employment.

Word: Industrious
Meaning: diligent; hardworking
Example: The industrious young man finished his four-year degree in two years.

Word: Industry
Meaning: hard work or effort
Example: The kitchen was transformed into a place of industry as we had to work very hard to make enough food for all of our guests.

Word: Inebriated
Meaning: behaving as though affected by alcohol; drunk
Example: After leaving the restaurant; the police officer cornered the patron to see if he was inebriated.

Word: Inedible
Meaning: unable to be eaten
Example: Many people have become sick by eating the poisonous and inedible berries growing near the blueberries.

Word: Ineffable
Meaning: incapable of being expressed in words
Example: The model’s beauty is ineffable and has everyone tongue-tied.

Word: Ineffective
Meaning: not performing as expected
Example: The housekeeper returned the ineffective vacuum cleaner and purchased one that worked much better.

Word: Ineffectual
Meaning: incapable of generating the sought after effects
Example: Once I realized the medicine was ineffectual; I stopped taking it.

Word: Inefficacious
Meaning: not producing the desired effect
Example: Liam thought that if he bought Julie flowers and expensive gifts she would reciprocate his love but his tactic was inefficacious.

Word: Inefficient
Meaning: not performing to ability or productivity
Example: The inefficient bridge needed extensive work before it would be cleared for travel.

Word: Ineluctable 
Meaning: impossible to alter
Example: Perhaps there is no hope for Jerry because even after a year in rehab his drug addiction seems ineluctable.

Word: Inept
Meaning: having or showing no skill
Example: The teenager was an inept driver who could not back out of his driveway without hitting something.

Word: Ineptitude
Meaning: the quality of being unfit or inept
Example: Because of Bill’s ineptitude; he lost his job.

Word: Inequality
Meaning: an unfair; not equal; state
Example: Inequality in the ingredients was likely the cause of the bitter tasting recipe the chef copied from his mentor.

Word: Ineradicable
Meaning: not capable of being removed completely
Example: Though black-market drugs are probably ineradicable; the government is still fighting to remove them from our society.

Word: Inert
Meaning: without power to act or move 
Example: Since my wounded dog is inert; I have to lift him up and put him in the car.

Word: Inertia
Meaning: the tendency to continue being motionless or inactive
Example: The legislators’ inertia has allowed the budget extension to expire before a solution can be put in place.

Word: Inestimable
Meaning: to such an extent the worth can’t be properly valued
Example: It’s impossible to define the inestimable role police officers play in keeping society safe.

Word: Inevitable
Meaning: incapable of being avoided or evaded
Example: Since Mary never wears shoes; it was inevitable that she would get a piece of glass in her foot.

Word: Inevitably
Meaning: going to happen; unavoidable
Example: Although my dog runs away sometimes; he inevitably returns home after a few hours.

Word: Inexcusable
Meaning: too bad to be justified or tolerated
Example: When her best friend started dating her ex boyfriend; she knew their friendship was over because that kind of betrayal was inexcusable.

Word: Inexhaustible
Meaning: endless; limitless
Example: The inexhaustible buckets of peanuts are continuously refilled as guests eat from them.

Word: Inexorable
Meaning: not able to be persuaded or stopped by any means; stubborn
Example: Of course; the public is enraged by the inexorable rise in gas prices.

Word: Inexpedient
Meaning: impractical or unwise
Example: It would be inexpedient to go walking through the desert without several bottles of water to keep you hydrated.

Word: Inexplicable
Meaning: incapable of being explained or interpreted
Example: Because the weather was clear and sunny a few moments ago; the sudden thunderstorm is inexplicable.

Word: Inextricably
Meaning: in a manner that is impossible to be unlinked
Example: The site where the black men were lynched has been inextricably linked with sorrow and hate.

Word: Infallible
Meaning: not capable of being wrong or of failing
Example: While you may think you are infallible; you make mistakes just like everyone else!

Word: Infamous 
Meaning: notorious; having a negative reputation
Example: The singer is infamous for her indecent costumes.

Word: Infamy
Meaning: the condition of being known for something unpleasant or bad
Example: In hopes of gaining infamy; the troubled youth brought a gun to school.

Word: Infancy
Meaning: the beginning stage of growth
Example: The hurricane seemed like a minor problem in its infancy but quickly grew into a devastating storm.

Word: Infant
Meaning: a young child; typically a baby that is not yet considered a toddler
Example: A human baby is considered an infant until it is about one year old; when it typically starts learning to walk and speak to some extent.

Word: Infantile
Meaning: pertaining to infants
Example: Two adults began to squabble in a most infantile way; displaying behavior that was very inappropriate for their age.

Word: Infantry
Meaning: a group of soldiers that march and fight on foot
Example: The infantry marched into battle with their rifles on their back and a mission in their hearts.

Word: Infatuated 
Meaning: to have a strong liking for someone or something
Example: Even as a young boy; the singer was infatuated with music.

Word: Infection
Meaning: a disease or virus that makes one sick
Example: Because she didn’t wash the cut on her hand regularly; Tessa ended up with a nasty infection inside the scratch.

Word: Infelicitous
Meaning: not well-timed or suitable
Example: Given the host’s spouse had recently died; my comment about wanting to die was infelicitous.

Word: Infer
Meaning: to make a guess based on evidence and reasoning
Example: Based on satellite images; we can infer with a degree of certainty that Japan is about to launch an attack.

Word: Inference
Meaning: a conclusion or opinion that is formed because of known facts or evidence
Example: From the data collected; scientists were able to make the inference that the water was polluted to the extent it was unsafe to drink.

Word: Inferential
Meaning: relating to or involving inference
Example: If you use inferential thought; you imply things based on the facts you already know to be true.

Word: Inferior
Meaning: of lower value or quality
Example: Slaves are viewed as inferior to their owners.

Word: Inferiority
Meaning: the fact of being around people who are more capable than you
Example: I had a feeling of inferiority when everyone around me could answer the questions easily except for me.

Word: Infernal
Meaning: horrible
Example: The infernal noise from my neighbor’s party kept me awake all night.

Word: Inferno
Meaning: an increasingly dangerous fire 
Example: The firefighters can’t stop the inferno in the woods until the wind stops blowing heavily.

Word: Infidel
Meaning: an individual who does not believe in a specific religion
Example: The old woman called me an infidel because I refused to attend her church.

Word: Infidelity
Meaning: the act of being unfaithful to your intimate partner
Example: My husband’s infidelity with another woman led me to file for divorce.

Word: Infiltrate
Meaning: to secretly penetrate; enter or gain access
Example: After the air conditioning unit malfunctioned; a large amount of debris would infiltrate the air and cause sickness to the household.

Word: Infinite
Meaning: an amount that is so endless it’s impossible to calculate
Example: Because there are an infinite amount of stars in the sky; it would be impossible to count each one.

Word: Infinitesimal
Meaning: very small
Example: In the grand scheme of things; so many of our problems are actually quite infinitesimal; and you shouldn’t waste the energy worrying about them.

Word: Infinity
Meaning: endlessness; unlimitedness; an eternity
Example: Humans do not live to infinity; but we do have a life expectancy of roughly 75 to 80 years.

Word: Infirm
Meaning: feeble and weak in health; usually because of illness or old age
Example: The infirm patients were sent to live out the rest of their days in the nursing home.

Word: Infirmity
Meaning: physical/mental weakness or disability
Example: He felt sorry for his uncle; feeling the alcoholism was a serious infirmity.

Word: Inflame
Meaning: to cause someone to become very angry or a situation to become extremely tense
Example: When calling each other names and pushing; the couple seemed to inflame the fight that landed them both in jail.

Word: Inflammable
Meaning: capable of burning; easily set on fire
Example: Once drenched in lighter fluid; the inflammable charcoal bricks ignited in fire when the match touched the first brick.

Word: Inflammatory
Meaning: having or relating to the irritation or swelling on or in the body 
Example: The elderly Mr. Thompson’s inflammatory arthritis could be detected by others due to his slow; painful walk and bloated knees.

Word: Inflatable
Meaning: capable of being filled with air
Example: A small hole in the inflatable raft caused the air to seep out and the swimmer to sink.

Word: Inflate
Meaning: to fill something up with air or gas
Example: Before Julie could ride her bike to the beach; she had to inflate her flattened tire with air.

Word: Inflation
Meaning: a steady rise in the prices of services and goods
Example: Inflation occurs as the value of currency decreases.

Word: Inflection
Meaning: an alteration in tone or pitch
Example: When Jan’s inflection kept changing during her speech; we knew she was nervous.

Word: Inflexible
Meaning: not flexible; not capable of bending or being bent
Example: Being extremely hard and capable of cutting through other stones and glass; diamonds are one of the most inflexible substances on Earth.

Word: Inflict
Meaning: to force something unpleasant upon a person or thing
Example: Our troops will inflict hefty casualties on their foes.

Word: Influence
Meaning: power to change; affect; control or manipulate someone or something
Example: Since they would influence my decisions; my mother told me to choose my friends wisely.

Word: Influential
Meaning: having or exerting influence or power
Example: Because she is very successful; my sister is an influential person in my life.

Word: Influenza
Meaning: a contagious viral infection that attacks your lungs (also called the flu)
Example: After being diagnosed with influenza; the patient was put on anti-biotics; and her breathing was monitored.

Word: Influx 
Meaning: the arrival of a large flow of people; things; or emotions
Example: I was unprepared for the influx of joy I felt when my boyfriend proposed.

Word: Inform
Meaning: to give someone information or facts
Example: It is a teacher’s job to inform their students about everything they need to know to generally live an educated life; from languages to science.

Word: Informal
Meaning: casual and relaxed
Example: The informal dinner only required that you wear casual clothing and not fancy attire.

Word: Informant
Meaning: a person who gives information to someone else
Example: The police claim that a secret informant called and told them who committed the crime.

Word: Infraction
Meaning: a violation of the rules
Example: One more infraction and Jason will be suspended from school.

Word: Infrastructure
Meaning: basic foundation or underlying framework (as of a system or organization)
Example: The aging infrastructure of the cities roads; tunnels and bridges are in urgent need of repair.

Word: Infringe
Meaning: to trespass upon something 
Example: Having that much work to do at home will only infringe upon my time with my family.

Word: Infuriated
Meaning: extremely angry
Example: The CEO was infuriated when he saw the fictitious news piece insulting his company.

Word: Infuse
Meaning: to fill with a certain quality
Example: Cook the rice until you thoroughly infuse it with the taste of the herbs and spices you added.

Word: Infusion
Meaning: the act of adding one thing to something else in order to make it stronger or more successful
Example: The secret to great sweet tea is the infusion of black and orange pekoe teas into the hot water.

Word: Ingenuity
Meaning: the capacity to find solutions for tough problems
Example: When Jack fixed the jeep; his friends were impressed with his mechanical ingenuity.

Word: Ingenuous
Meaning: innocent; naive
Example: Jessica’s ingenuous nature made her an easy target for the con man.

Word: Ingest
Meaning: to eat or drink something by swallowing or by taking it through the skin
Example: Trained assassins and military personnel used to hide cyanide pills on their back teeth so that in the event of capture; they could bite down and ingest the poison quick enough to die.

Word: Inglorious
Meaning: shameful or dishonorable
Example: It’s a shame that the thieving CEO gave up his career for an inglorious life of crime.

Word: Ingrained
Meaning: established; firmly fixed
Example: Being right-handed was ingrained in me so that it was very difficult to write with my left hand.

Word: Ingrate
Meaning: an ungrateful person
Example: When you do not appreciate your gifts; you are being an ingrate.

Word: Ingratiate
Meaning: to try to get someone's approval by doing or saying things that will please them
Example: Since the new teacher failed to ingratiate herself with the students; she found it hard to maintain an orderly classroom.

Word: Ingratitude
Meaning: a lack or absence of gratitude; thanklessness
Example: After having received such a large gift; Harry displayed ingratitude when he began to complain that it was too small.

Word: Ingress
Meaning: a means of entry or the action of going into an area
Example: The glass doors on the hotel’s second floor provide ingress into the mall.

Word: Inhabit
Meaning: to live or reside in some place
Example: While we renovated our home; we would need to inhabit our summer cabin.

Word: Inhabitant
Meaning: an animal or individual who resides in a specific place
Example: When the apartment inhabitant came home from work; he saw his belongings outside and knew he'd been evicted.

Word: Inhabitants
Meaning: people or animals who live in a place
Example: Being well aware of the ragged hole in the ground; the homeowners worried about the inhabitants of it being a poisonous snake.

Word: Inhale
Meaning: to suck in a breath
Example: Yoga students inhale deeply through their nose; hold; and then slowly let out their breath to release the stress from their bodies.

Word: Inherent
Meaning: existing in something as a permanent; essential; or characteristic attribute
Example: Most mothers have an inherent need to protect their children.

Word: Inheritance
Meaning: things (money or property) you receive when someone dies
Example: Katrina had to go to the lawyer’s office to find out about her inheritance after her brother died.

Word: Inhibition
Meaning: a personal feeling of fear or embarrassment that stops one from behaving naturally
Example: My inhibition makes me nervous about being watched so I try to blend into the scenery.

Word: Inhospitable
Meaning: not welcoming or friendly
Example: The inhospitable man did not offer his guests any refreshments.

Word: Inhuman
Meaning: something that is so cruel or immoral as to be considered beyond human capability
Example: Many people rightly consider the Holocaust to be one of the most inhuman crimes to ever be committed by mankind.

Word: Inhumane
Meaning: describing a situation or act that reveals a lack of compassion for those suffering
Example: The man was arrested for committing an inhumane act against the puppy.

Word: Inimical
Meaning: not friendly; hostile
Example: Although I attempt to avoid the school bully; he always goes out of his way to be inimical to me.

Word: Inimitable
Meaning: something so special or unique; it's impossible to copy or imitate
Example: Every once in a while; a band comes along that is so unique they are completely inimitable.

Word: Iniquity
Meaning: extremely immoral or unfair behavior
Example: When I went to my brother’s college dorm; I saw drunken boys exhibiting iniquity towards girls.

Word: Initial
Meaning: the first; preliminary
Example: On the initial test; I made a bad grade; but I’m hoping to past the second one.

Word: Initially
Meaning: at the beginning
Example: Newly hired employees are trained for three days; initially; then given their own register serving customers.

Word: Initiation
Meaning: the process of being formally accepted as being a member of a group
Example: During the initiation; the new Girl Scouts had to promise to be the best they could be.

Word: Initiative
Meaning: an introductory step or act taken by a person
Example: Emma took the initiative to clean her room before her parents asked.

Word: Inject
Meaning: to introduce something new to a situation
Example: My boss likes to inject humor when talking with his staff which makes us feel comfortable around him.

Word: Injudicious
Meaning: unwise; showing poor judgement
Example: The dumb kid’s injudicious decision to rob the bank landed him in the slammer for 15 years.

Word: Injunction
Meaning: an court order which demands that something must or must not be done
Example: Because he had witnessed the murder; the man received an injunction to testify in court.

Word: Injure 
Meaning: to hurt or damage something
Example: The runner always stretches before running so that he doesn’t injure or hurt his body in anyway.

Word: Injurious
Meaning: causing injury
Example: Illegal drugs are injurious to your health.

Word: Injustice
Meaning: unfair treatment
Example: Many are up in arms over police injustice around the country.

Word: Inkling
Meaning: an idea; thought; or suggestion
Example: Even after Phil watched the teacher perform sample problems; he still had no inkling of how to complete the assignment.

Word: Inmate
Meaning: a person who is in jail or prison
Example: After being convicted of murder; the man became inmate number #8675309.

Word: Inmate
Meaning: a person who is in jail or in prison
Example: After just one day in the county jail; the inmate wished that he had never committed his crimes.

Word: Inmost
Meaning: innermost
Example: He buried his deepest desires in the inmost recesses of his heart and hid them from the world.

Word: Innards
Meaning: the internal organs of a human or animal
Example: After removing the innards; the taxidermist began the task of producing a life-like display of the bear.

Word: Innate
Meaning: a quality or ability which you are born with; or which is present naturally
Example: Unlike both of her sisters who adore children; Elise does not have an innate desire to raise a family.

Word: Innkeeper
Meaning: someone who oversees a small motel
Example: When the bed and breakfast advertised for an innkeeper; the woman applied for the job since she could manage the staff in the restaurant and house efficiently.

Word: Innocent
Meaning: not guilty of a crime or wrongdoing; harmless
Example: Thankfully; the judge took the new evidence into consideration and released the innocent man.

Word: Innocuous
Meaning: not harmful or offensive
Example: Because the virus was innocuous; the hospital staff had no need to worry about the leak.

Word: Innovate 
Meaning: to bring about something new
Example: It will be hard for you to keep your job at the technology company if you cannot innovate amazing mobile applications.

Word: Innovation
Meaning: coming up with new ideas or technologies
Example: The innovation of brilliant minds is what grants humanity amazing technology such as space flight or the internet.

Word: Innuendo
Meaning: a statement that indirectly suggests someone has done something immoral; improper; etc.
Example: Although the dialogue in the book is not sexually explicit; the writer makes great use of innuendo to convey his message.

Word: Innumerable
Meaning: too many in number to be counted
Example: The popular celebrity receives an innumerable amount of fan mail each week.

Word: Inoculate
Meaning: to treat a person with a vaccine to prevent disease
Example: Before doctors were able to inoculate people with a polio vaccine; many people died from the disease.

Word: Inopportune
Meaning: at an awkward time or period
Example: Since the economy is depressed; it is an inopportune period for the Fed to raise interest rates.

Word: Inordinate
Meaning: excessively large
Example: Every year I spend an inordinate amount of time selecting Christmas presents for my large family.

Word: Input device
Meaning: any hardware device that sends data to a computer; allowing you to interact with and control it
Example: A keyboard or some other input device is needed to send information from the user to the computer.

Word: Input 
Meaning: something put into a system or process (i.e.; information; advice; money)
Example: With the teacher’s input; the students were able to complete their science project and enter it into the contest.

Word: Inquest 
Meaning: the process in which a court of law or a coroner investigates the circumstances of a person's death
Example: The judge ordered an inquest after several family members requested their loved one’s death be investigated further.

Word: Inquire
Meaning: to obtain information by asking questions
Example: The police are going to inquire about your whereabouts on the night of the murder.

Word: Inquiry
Meaning: the asking of questions for informational purposes
Example: A credit inquiry was made to see if the couple qualified for the loan.

Word: Inquisition
Meaning: intensive questioning
Example: As soon as I get home from my first date; I will have to face my nosey mother’s inquisition.

Word: Inquisitive
Meaning: eager for knowledge; curious
Example: The inquisitive cat loves to sit in the windowsill.

Word: Insane
Meaning: being of an irrational or crazy mental state
Example: The insane woman believed that she had two different people living inside of her mind; and that they were entirely separate from her.

Word: Insanity
Meaning: the state of being mentally ill or having an unwell mind
Example: During his bouts with insanity; the painter would talk to himself and create strange pieces of art.

Word: Insatiable
Meaning: never have enough of something
Example: After being lost in the desert for days; the dehydrated man figured that all the water in the world would not quench his insatiable thirst.

Word: Inscribe
Meaning: to write on an object
Example: Jake asked the jeweler to inscribe a beautiful message on the engagement ring.

Word: Inscription
Meaning: writing carved into something
Example: The painting looked like a real one but the inscription on the back proved it was a fake.

Word: Inscrutable
Meaning: incapable of being investigated or understood
Example: When Larry wrote the letter; he was so tired the writing was nearly inscrutable.

Word: Insect
Meaning: small invertebrate animals with multiple pairs of legs; generally with an exoskeleton
Example: Whenever someone mentions the word ‘insect;’ the first thing that comes to our mind is usually ants or beetles.

Word: Insecure
Meaning: not confident in oneself
Example: Someone that is insecure in their English abilities is very unlikely to participate in a spelling bee; due to their lack of faith in themselves.

Word: Insensate
Meaning: lacking logic and reasoning
Example: The insensate simpleton decided to put his hand on the electric fence even though there was a sign that made it obvious he shouldn’t.

Word: Insensitive
Meaning: having no concern or care for the feelings of other people
Example: I do not mean to be insensitive; but my lack of understanding for other people’s troubles sometimes comes across as that.

Word: Insensitive
Meaning: feeling or showing no concern for the feelings of others
Example: Ariel’s husband tends to be insensitive; never caring much about her emotional needs.

Word: Inseparable
Meaning: unable to be separated
Example: Two inseparable friends are always near each other and are impossible to find apart; almost as though they are one being.

Word: Insert
Meaning: to place something inside of something else
Example: If you want a soda; you must insert a dollar into the drink machine.

Word: Inside
Meaning: the inner part of a thing
Example: The wet children hurried to get inside the building as the rain continued to pour down outside.

Word: Insidious
Meaning: something that is slowly and secretly causing harm
Example: The insidious playboy planned to con the heiress out of her fortune.

Word: Insight
Meaning: the knowledge of a subject’s real nature
Example: The psychological insight from the simulation will reveal how the prospective pilots will work under stress.

Word: Insightful
Meaning: having or showing a very good understanding of something
Example: We were fascinated as we listened to the captivating and insightful words of the speaker who had such an accurate understanding of history.

Word: Insignia
Meaning: a patch or badge that indicates a person's official or military rank; or which group or organization they belong to
Example: Because Rita is a Chicago Cubs fan; she wears the team logo as her insignia.

Word: Insignificant
Meaning: not important or negligible
Example: An ant may be insignificant by itself; but an entire army of ants can terrorize the entirety of the Amazon rainforest.

Word: Insinuate
Meaning: 1.) to imply or suggest that something negative is true»  2.) to insert yourself into a place of favor in a subtle way
Example: During the debate; the senator tried to insinuate his opponent was not qualified for office.

Word: Insipid
Meaning: dull or boring
Example: When you present; please do not be an insipid speaker who makes everyone fall asleep!

Word: Insist
Meaning: to demand something in a forceful way
Example: Kaden’s pushy parents insist that he go to law school even though he really wants to be a nurse.

Word: Insistent
Meaning: demanding that something happen
Example: His wife’s insistent nagging finally got him to get up and clean the gutters.

Word: Insofar
Meaning: to the extent that
Example: Unfortunately; the school system can only educate you insofar as you study its teachings; as it cannot directly imprint info on your brain.

Word: Insolent
Meaning: rude or impolite
Example: When the insolent young man yelled my name; I ignored him and walked towards my car.

Word: Insoluble
Meaning: can't be solved or explained
Example: The frustrated student spent hours trying to solve the seemingly insoluble math problem.

Word: Insomnia
Meaning: a condition in which one has trouble sleeping regularly
Example: If you are afflicted with insomnia you are unable to go to sleep on a regular basis; which will often make you tired in the morning.

Word: Insomniac
Meaning: a person who is regularly unable to sleep
Example: As an insomniac; it takes me nearly two hours to go to sleep almost every night; making me even more exhausted in the mornings.

Word: Insouciant
Meaning: not concerned about anything; carefree
Example: The insouciant mother did not blink an eye when her son complained of a tummy ache.

Word: Inspect
Meaning: to study someone or something to discover any flaws or to find answers to a question-like in an investigation
Example: Mechanics at the dealership inspect the car before buying or selling.

Word: Inspiration
Meaning: a person or thing that inspires
Example: The inspiration for my painting was my favorite pet.

Word: Inspire
Meaning: to excite and encourage
Example: The writer loved to inspire others with his uplifting poems.

Word: Install
Meaning: to put something in position so that it can be used
Example: The electrician will install our new stove today so that my mother can cook dinner tonight.

Word: Installment
Meaning: a part or portion of something; especially money paid in increments
Example: The buyer has paid one installment out of twelve and will pay the remaining portions by the month.

Word: Instance
Meaning: a specific example or single occurrence of something
Example: This shoplifting instance was only one example of why the shop installed hidden cameras.

Word: Instant
Meaning: happening or coming immediately
Example: The instant the baking soda hit the vinegar; it exploded into a foamy; mess of bubbles and liquid.

Word: Instantaneous
Meaning: done immediately
Example: When the emergency room physician detected the patient’s ruptured spleen; he wheeled the patient upstairs for an instantaneous operation or the patient would die.

Word: Instead
Meaning: in place of; as a substitute
Example: Instead of using the locker that was assigned to him; the high school senior carries around his books in a backpack.

Word: Instigate
Meaning: to trigger something
Example: Justine hoped to instigate Will and Gail's separation by spreading false rumors about Will’s late nights at work.

Word: Instigator
Meaning: A person who causes something usually bad to happen
Example: Although he wasn’t involved in the actual fight; Ed was the instigator that got the whole thing started.

Word: Instill
Meaning: to slowly cause a person to develop a feeling or attitude
Example: The detective tried to instill fear in the suspect by telling him about the dangers of prison.

Word:  Instinct 
Meaning: an innate ability that allows an individual or animal to respond without actively making a decision
Example: The bear’s maternal instinct made her fight to the death to save her cub.

Word: Instinctive
Meaning: unlearned and done without thought or reasoning
Example: Breathing is instinctive because nobody has to teach you how to do it.

Word: Institute
Meaning: to start; begin; or launch something
Example: The local police department will institute a search for the missing boy at 8 a.m.

Word: Institution
Meaning: an organization created for a specific purpose such as religion or education
Example: A university is an educational institution that is designed to provide the necessary knowledge for people to gain a career in the field of their choice.

Word: Instruct
Meaning: to tell someone or teach someone to do something
Example: You could hear the loud military leader instruct his troop on where to march from the other side of the hill.

Word: Instruction
Meaning: an order; command; or direction that tells someone what to do or how to do it
Example: Allie received a bad grade on her project because she ignored her teacher’s last instruction and did it incorrectly.

Word: Instrumental
Meaning: something that directly influences a movement; goal; or aim; usually positive
Example: Martin Luther King Jr. was an instrumental part of the Civil Rights Movement that brought about more freedom for African Americans.

Word: Insubordination
Meaning: the act of refusing to follow the instructions of an individual who is considered to be one’s superior
Example: The soldier’s refusal to follow orders was nothing less than insubordination.

Word: Insubstantial
Meaning: not enough; not strong enough
Example: Because the evidence was insubstantial; there wasn’t strong enough proof to charge the man with murder.

Word: Insufferable 
Meaning: unbearable
Example: Jean filed for divorce from her insufferable husband after only three days of marriage.

Word: Insufficient
Meaning: not enough; inadequate
Example: The insufficient quantity of soap in the laundry room made it difficult to wash all of the clothing.

Word: Insular
Meaning: not interested in meeting anyone outside your own group or country; or not interested in learning new ideas or ways of doing things
Example: Because the insular man had lived on a deserted island for several years; he was not very good at making conversation.

Word: Insulation
Meaning: material used to keep something (usually a building) warm
Example: Thick insulation was added to the walls and the attic to keep the cold air out of the old farmhouse.

Word: Insulin
Meaning: a hormone made by the pancreas that controls the level of the sugar glucose in the blood
Example: Because he has diabetes; the man’s pancreas does not make enough insulin to control his sugar glucose levels.

Word: Insult
Meaning: to speak to or about someone in an abusive; degrading; or disrespectful way
Example: Because her husband liked to insult her with rude jokes when he drank alcohol; Jodi begged him to stop drinking.

Word: Insuperable
Meaning: not possible to achieve
Example: No matter how hard the kitten tried; it could not face the insuperable challenge of climbing back down the tree.

Word: Insurance
Meaning: a practice or arrangement by which a company or government agency provides a guarantee of compensation for specified loss; damage; illness; or death in return for payment of a premium.; a thing providing protection against a possible eventuality
Example: It’s recommended that renters get insurance on their belongings in case of a robbery.

Word: Insure
Meaning: to guarantee or reassure
Example: The local car salesman would insure a perfect car for every buyer and he would put it in a binding contract.

Word: Insurgent
Meaning: a rebel; one of several people who take up arms against the local state authority
Example: For his crimes against the state; he was tried as an enemy insurgent.

Word: Insurmountable
Meaning: incapable of being passed over or overcome
Example: Even though the task of cleaning out the garage seemed insurmountable; Sue had the place spotless and ready for her new car by Monday.

Word: Insurrection
Meaning: an organized uprising against an authoritative body
Example: During the insurrection; several convicts held a prison doctor hostage.

Word: Intact 
Meaning: not disturbed or spoiled in any way
Example: After Sheila drank two bottles of tequila; her memory was no longer intact.

Word: Intake
Meaning: the amount of a substance (i.e.; food; water) that is brought into the body
Example: While trying to lose weight; Henry lowered his daily calorie intake to just 1;200 calories eaten.

Word:  Intangible
Meaning: lacking a touchable form
Example: While emotions can be expressed; they are intangible because they cannot be physically touched.

Word: Integer
Meaning: a whole number
Example: Each integer on the number line is marked with a dash.

Word: Integral
Meaning: important and necessary
Example: The engine is an integral part of any motor vehicle.

Word: Integrate
Meaning: to come together or be put together in order to make a single unit
Example: The activists marched and protested to integrate schools so children of all races could learn together.

Word: Integration
Meaning: the action of making something whole by combining things together
Example: The integration of several schools has decreased the number of academic options in our community.

Word: Integrity
Meaning: firm adherence to a code of especially moral or artistic values
Example: Because the politician was considered a man of integrity; most of the people voted for him in the last election.

Word: Intellect 
Meaning: the capability to view things in a logical manner
Example: The scientist has a keen intellect and can easily solve most puzzles.

Word: Intellectual
Meaning: involving the capability to process high level concepts 
Example: Because the teen’s intellectual development is subpar; he cannot process higher level theories.

Word: Intelligence
Meaning: knowledge typically gained through research or studying
Example: Intelligence isn't born; but learned through years of heavy studying.

Word: Intelligent
Meaning: smart; knowledgeable
Example: Jason is the most intelligent student in class and always seems to know the right answer.

Word: Intelligentsia
Meaning: highly educated people in a society
Example: French intelligentsia were heavily involved in helping educate the poorer class in the Paris.

Word: Intelligible
Meaning: capable of being comprehended
Example: Because the intoxicated man slurred his words; his speech was far from intelligible.

Word: Intemperate 
Meaning: having problems with exercising control
Example: John has intemperate mood swings he cannot seem to control.

Word: Intend
Meaning: to have a plan in your mind to carry out
Example: I do not intend to spend a lot of time discussing the details of the project with you because it is a waste of my time.

Word: Intended
Meaning: meant; aimed
Example: Will intended to take his family to the beach this weekend; but ended up having to work on his day off.

Word: Intense
Meaning: very strong or extreme
Example: Intense concentration was required to build the house of cards.

Word: Intensely
Meaning: very strongly; in an extreme way
Example: Staring intensely at the mirror; the woman couldn’t figure out how she’d managed to put on so much weight.

Word: Intensify
Meaning: to make something more intense
Example: Turning the thermometer up will cause the heat in the room to intensify; providing warmth during the winter months.

Word: Intensity
Meaning: at a stronger level than normal
Example: The stranger stared at her with an intensity that made her uncomfortable and she had to look away.

Word: Intent
Meaning: the purpose or reason for doing something
Example: When you walked in the store was it your intent to harm the salesclerk?

Word: Intention
Meaning: a course of action that a person intends to follow
Example: Alex said that his intention is to marry Rachel.

Word: Intentional
Meaning: on purpose;planned and deliberate
Example: Karen is intentional with her eating selections and always plans her meals ahead so she won’t make a bad choice.

Word: Intently
Meaning: attentively
Example: If I want to understand the entire concept; I must focus intently on my professor's lecture.

Word: Inter alia
Meaning: a phrase meaning among other things
Example: The teacher wore many hats including counselor and nurse; inter alia.

Word: Inter
Meaning: to put a deceased person to rest
Example: We decided to inter my son’s dead bird near the apple tree.

Word: Inter
Meaning: to place a dead body or object into a grave or tomb
Example: The crypt keepers will inter the body into the tomb when the clock strikes twelve.

Word: Interact
Meaning: act in such a way as to have an effect on another; act reciprocally
Example: She struggled to get her introverted child to interact with other kids; but he preferred solitude and books.

Word: Interaction
Meaning: shared or collaborative communication
Example: After years of humans’ interactions with the environment by polluting its rivers; the Earth became damaged and irreparable.

Word: Interactive
Meaning: acting with each other
Example: During our kindergarten visit; the 8th graders became very interactive with the young children after getting to know them.

Word: Intercede
Meaning: to try to help settle an argument or disagreement between two or more people or groups
Example: Even though a mother-in-law may have good intentions; I do not believe she should ever intercede in an argument between a husband and a wife.

Word: Intercept
Meaning: to stop; deflect or divert something in progress or motion
Example: I leaped into the air; attempting to intercept the football before it landed in Bernie’s hands.

Word: Interchange
Meaning: when two or more people trade information with each other
Example: The interchange of research and statistics between scientists working on similar studies can lead to new discoveries.

Word: Interchangeable 
Meaning: able to be substituted
Example: Because the British pound is worth more than the US dollar; the two currencies are not interchangeable.

Word: Intercity
Meaning: traveling or existing between cities
Example: Intercity trains take the passengers from D.C. to other local cities.

Word: Intercom
Meaning: a system which allows a person speaking into a microphone to be heard on a speaker by people in a different room or area
Example: Babbling through the intercom; the baby let the parents know that they would have a long night ahead of them.

Word: Interconnect
Meaning: for more than one person or thing to connect with each other
Example: Many of the walking trails at the park interconnect and link at some point or another.

Word: Interconnection
Meaning: a mutual connection between two or more people or things
Example: A strong interconnection between the twins made it seem like they could read each other’s minds.

Word: Interdependence 
Meaning: a relationship in which individuals or groups are dependent upon each other
Example: In biology; we learn about types of interdependence in which two organisms feed off each other.

Word: Interdict
Meaning: to ban or prohibit in a firm manner
Example: The government’s new plan to interdict illegal drug sales will cost the country billions of dollars.

Word:  Interdiction 
Meaning: an official order stopping a person or group from doing a specific task
Example: For safety reasons; the city issued an interdiction which prohibits minors from being outside after 10 pm.

Word: Interdigitate
Meaning: for two things to become interlocked
Example: As the boat sank; the couple chose to digitate their hands; and their fingers remained interlocked as they sank into the water.

Word: Interest
Meaning: attention that is given to or received from someone or something
Example: The upcoming Royal wedding between Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will be of significant interest to the entire world.

Word: Interfere
Meaning: to take part in the affairs of others
Example: My neighbor’s rowdy parties interfere with my nightly slumbers.

Word: Interference
Meaning: a disruption between two or more things that most likely causes the action to stop
Example: I didn’t know if Ms. Smith would believe my excuse; but I really couldn’t access the internet since there was an interference with the connection.

Word: Interim
Meaning: meantime; short-term
Example: While my car is in the shop; I think I’ll borrow Dad’s Corvette for getting around during the interim.

Word: Interior
Meaning: having to do with the inner part of something
Example: A fire in the interior of a car spreads quickly to the trunk.

Word: Interject
Meaning: to cut in on another person’s statement by making a remark
Example: Every now and then the dog would bark to interject himself into my phone conversation.

Word: Interlock
Meaning: to link or connect two or more things together
Example: Because they were designed to interlock; the puzzle pieces snap together perfectly.

Word: Interlocutor
Meaning: an individual who is engaged in a dialogue with another person
Example: After Lynn listened to her friends’ conversation for a while; she became an interlocutor and expressed her opinion.

Word: Interloper
Meaning: someone who intrudes on the privacy or property of another without permission
Example: Since she has never been able to let her son go; my mother-in-law is an interloper in my marriage.

Word: Interlude
Meaning: a short period of time that comes in the middle of an event or situation
Example: We exited the theater during the short interlude to purchase something to eat.

Word: Intermediary 
Meaning: a person or thing that facilitates
Example: The intermediary is responsible for delivering the goods to the client and paying the seller.

Word: Intermediate
Meaning: being between two extremes; or in the middle of a range
Example: Due to my advanced knowledge of the subject matter; I was permitted to skip the beginners course and start at the intermediate level.

Word: Interment
Meaning: putting a dead body to rest; the act of burying someone
Example: The soldier who deserted his comrades in battle was not given interment in a military cemetery.

Word: Interminable
Meaning: seemingly without end; endless
Example: Being in the backseat of the car with her grandparents was an interminable experience for the teenage girl.

Word: Intermission
Meaning: a scheduled break of about 10 to 15 minutes in the middle of a play; movie or concert
Example: The woman quickly consumed the candy and drink during the play’s intermission because she could not take it back in the theater.

Word: Intermittent
Meaning: displaying in a random pattern; not consistent
Example: When the cops arrived; the loud intermittent noise had stopped.

Word: Intermittently
Meaning: not consistent; starting and stopping at random times 
Example: Unfortunately; my neighbor’s car alarm went on and off intermittently throughout the night.

Word: Intern
Meaning: a person that works somewhere not for pay but to gain training or experience
Example: The intern started her training in the mailroom and also learned about processing payments during her time at the company.

Word: Internal conflict
Meaning: a struggle within the mind that results from having two opposing desires
Example: Haley decided to quit her job and start her own business despite her internal conflict with the decision.

Word: Internal
Meaning: the interior or inside of something
Example: Since the emergency room physician suspected internal bleeding; the patient’s chest was opened up to see if the injury was bad.

Word: Internalize
Meaning: to make the ideas; standards; attitudes; values and opinions of others influence how you think and feel
Example: Sarah would internalize every harsh word said to her which resulted in her lashing out at people.

Word: International
Meaning: of or having to do with more than one nation
Example: The international chess competition was especially difficult because professional players from all over the world were in participation.

Word: Internecine
Meaning: causing destruction to both sides in the battle
Example: When the internecine war was over; both nations were left in ruins.

Word: Interpersonal
Meaning: communication and relationships between individuals
Example: Successful politicians have great interpersonal skills that enable them to relate to and communicate with people from all backgrounds.

Word: Interpolate
Meaning: to change something by adding material to it
Example: Since the author would often interpolate the stories of others by adding his own text; the critics did not view him as a real writer.

Word: Interpose
Meaning: to involve oneself or to insert
Example: It can be dangerous to interpose yourself between a cat fight.

Word: Interpret 
Meaning: to clarify something so it can be understood 
Example: The police officer could not interpret the deaf woman’s gestures.

Word: Interpretation
Meaning: a person’s view of something 
Example: My interpretation of the portrait is much different than the artist’s vision.

Word: Interpreter
Meaning: someone who translates from one language into another
Example: As I visited rural China; my interpreter explained in English what the local farmer was saying in Mandarin Chinese about his crops.

Word: Interrelate
Meaning: to relate or connect with one another
Example: At first; the two crimes didn’t seem to interrelate; but no police think they have a common killer.

Word: Interrelation
Meaning: the way in which each of two or more things is related to the other
Example: There is no interrelation between the two men; but they look as if they could be brothers.

Word: Interrelationship
Meaning: a close connection between two or more people or things
Example: A key concern of a number of recent U.S. studies has been the interrelationship between relations of politics; power; and racism.

Word: Interrogate
Meaning: to question someone in a commanding manner
Example: If Jill brings a boy home; she knows her father is going to interrogate him by asking hundreds of questions.

Word: Interrogative
Meaning: to be written in the form of a question
Example: Teenagers frequently despise when their parents confront them with interrogative statements and demanding answers.

Word: Interrupt
Meaning: stop the continuous progress of an activity or process
Example: Kayla’s brother always seemed to interrupt her in the middle of the movie.

Word: Intersection
Meaning: a place where two or more paths meet; typically in reference to roads
Example: Because two different roads meet at this intersection; they form a cross that provides four different directions for a driver to travel.

Word: Intersperse
Meaning: to spread things out at intervals
Example: The parents have decided to intersperse their son’s trust fund payments so that he will get money every 30 days.

Word: Interstate
Meaning: an American term related to events or roads that occur between states
Example: I-75 is a highway that runs through several states.

Word: Interstellar
Meaning: between or among the stars
Example: Interstellar is a film about mankind’s search for a new home among the stars.

Word: Interstice
Meaning: a small interfering gap
Example: Light peered through the interstice of the deck where the two boards did not completely meet together.

Word: Interstitial
Meaning: situated in interstices (small spaces)
Example: The patient was diagnosed with interstitial lung disease that stemmed from bacteria moving into small spaces in her lung cavity.

Word: Intertwined
Meaning: twisted together or closely connected
Example: Our lives became increasingly intertwined as we drew closer to each other.

Word: Interval
Meaning: the period of time that exists between happenings
Example: The interval between my wife’s contractions has decreased to twenty minutes.

Word: Intervene 
Meaning: to interfere in an incident for a specific purpose
Example: The teacher was injured when she tried to intervene in the fight between the two male students.

Word: Intervention 
Meaning: the process of becoming purposefully entangled in another’s affairs
Example: Our nation’s intervention in another country’s war could pull us into the crisis.

Word: Intimacy
Meaning: feeling of closeness and openness towards someone else
Example: Instead of controlling my children; I tried to create an intimacy with them.

Word: Intimate 
Meaning: not public; private 
Example: Because I am a private person; I do not like to share intimate details about my home life.

Word: Intimation
Meaning: a sign or suggestion that something is likely to happen
Example: Because they destroyed so many lives; the recent bombings are a brutal intimation of immortality.

Word: Intimidate
Meaning: to make afraid
Example: The mob tries to intimidate shop owners into paying protection fees.

Word: Intimidated
Meaning: to become timid or fearful of
Example: Jack was intimidated by the gangster; which is why he agreed to give him all of his money.

Word: Intimidation
Meaning: the act of making something feel threatened or afraid
Example: Intimidation and scare tactics were used to stop the players from kneeling during the anthem.

Word: Intolerable
Meaning: not able to be tolerated
Example: If I have to spend another second talking to that intolerable woman; I’m going to scream!

Word: Intolerant
Meaning: unable or indisposed to tolerate; endure or bear
Example: Matt is an intolerant person who hates listening to other people talk when their opinions are contrary to his own.

Word: Intonation
Meaning: the rise and fall in the pitch of a voice
Example: The rising intonation in the teenager's voice at the end of each sentence makes it seem as if she is asking a question.

Word: Intoned
Meaning: to speak with little voice inflection
Example: The boy intoned while he read the story with boring monotone speech.

Word: Intoxicated
Meaning: drunk
Example: Finishing off her last glass of wine; the intoxicated artist struggled to hold her paintbrush steady.

Word: Intracellular
Meaning: taking place inside of a cell
Example: Intracellular toxins affect the organelles and other substances inside of a cell.

Word: Intractable
Meaning: not easily managed or controlled
Example: Bringing up the sunken cruise ship is going to be an intractable task.

Word: Intramural
Meaning: taking place within an organization or group
Example: The intramural teams at our school only participate in games against each other.

Word: Intransigent
Meaning: uncompromising
Example: Even though the divorce proceedings should be over; they are still dragging on because of the intransigent parties involved.

Word: Intrastate
Meaning: an American term that describes something happening within a state or one area
Example: The intrastate highway will not take you over state lines.

Word: Intravenous
Meaning: by way of a vein
Example: Intravenous drug users often bruise their veins.

Word: Intrepid
Meaning: very brave
Example: To be an astronaut; you must be an intrepid person who craves adventure and is not afraid of heights.

Word: Intricacy
Meaning: the condition of being complex or extremely detailed
Example: The autistic boy found it easy to grasp the intricacy of the thousand-piece puzzle.

Word: Intricate
Meaning: highly involved or complex
Example: It took me months to put the intricate puzzle together.

Word: Intrigue 
Meaning: a complex scheme devised to gain something in a sneaky way
Example: The intrigue surrounding the latest political scandal has created some interesting tabloid articles.

Word: Intriguing 
Meaning: of interest; triggering a wish to know more
Example: The movie looks intriguing so I’m definitely going to see it.

Word: Intrinsic
Meaning: internally true and genuine; often referring to the worth of people and objects for their value
Example: A man with a generous heart can see the intrinsic value in something which looks worthless to others.

Word: Introduce
Meaning: to bring a measure; product; or process into use for the first time
Example: In an effort to modernize delivery; companies like Amazon have begun to introduce drones as a means of getting orders to doorsteps.

Word: Introduction
Meaning: a situation in which someone or something is brought in or used for the first time
Example: The introduction of the teen’s new boyfriend to her parents didn’t go very well.

Word: Introspection
Meaning: the process of examining one’s own thoughts and feelings 
Example: During a fierce battle; there is no time for a soldier to engage in introspection.

Word: Introspective
Meaning: tending to examine your own feelings; thoughts; or ideas
Example: If you are too introspective; you may talk yourself out of doing something wonderful.

Word: Introvert
Meaning: one who concentrates on his own life and shows little interest in socializing 
Example: Because I am an introvert; I rarely go to parties.

Word: Intrude
Meaning: to come or enter without invitation; permission; or welcome; to trespass
Example: Gaby opened my door saying that she did not mean to intrude; but that someone was waiting to speak to me for over an hour.

Word: Intruder
Meaning: someone in a place or situation who is not wanted
Example: Bonnie told me she feels like an intruder when at a family cookout at her in- laws house due to a personality clash.

Word: Intrusion
Meaning: an instance when a person goes into a place where they were not invited or wanted
Example: Apologizing for her intrusion; the main slowly backed out of the couple’s bedroom.

Word: Intuition
Meaning: an abilility to immediately understand something without reasoning or proof
Example: They say that when you feel something is wrong you should trust your intuition.

Word: Intuitive
Meaning: being able to sense or understand things with little or no information
Example: The intuitive police officer could tell the woman was trying to hide something from him.

Word: Inundate
Meaning: overwhelm with things or people
Example: My boss is the type of person who likes to inundate others with projects.

Word: Inure
Meaning: to become immune to unpleasant events or situations
Example: Raising three dramatic daughters will inure you to temper tantrums.

Word: Inured
Meaning: able to withstand hardship; to become accustomed to something unpleasant by prolonged exposure
Example: Ever since Melissa lost her mother when she was a child; she has been inured to hardship.

Word: Invade
Meaning: to attack or enter by force
Example: Police forces were cautioned to not use deadly force when they prepared to invade the home.

Word: Invalid
Meaning: not binding or acceptable
Example: The police officer gave me a ticket for driving with an invalid license.

Word: Invalidate
Meaning: to make something useless or to repeal it
Example: If your tickets are stolen; the distributor can invalidate them so they can’t be used.

Word: Invaluable
Meaning: crucial; particularly useful
Example: Without Amy’s invaluable help; we would not have met the project deadline.

Word: Invariable
Meaning: never changing; always the same
Example: The human condition is invariable; and no matter how much we progress humanity will always wage war and spread distrust among each other.

Word: Invariably
Meaning: always
Example: Max was a little too handy with the snooze button on his alarm clock; so he was invariably late for work every day.

Word: Invasion
Meaning: a occasion when a someone (usually a military) uses force to take over an area
Example: In an attempt to stop an invasion; the villagers built a tall fort to protect against the enemy’s force.

Word: Invective
Meaning: abusive language used to criticize
Example: The newspaper’s invective of the novel really made the author angry.

Word: Inveigh
Meaning: to criticize someone or something very strongly
Example: Because one politician chose to inveigh on the subject of immigration for an hour; the debate went on all afternoon.

Word: Inveigle
Meaning: to persuade someone to do something by means of deception or flattery 
Example: Speechless I stood by as June was able to inveigle her way into the private club by flirting with the security guard.

Word: Invention
Meaning: something that has been invented
Example: Jane appreciates the invention of the air conditioner on hot summer days.

Word: Inventive
Meaning: having the ability to create something
Example: The inventive father would always force his children to try out the toys he spent hours building.

Word: Inventory
Meaning: a complete list of goods or merchandise that is in a store or warehouse
Example: An inventory list was released that outlined each of the cars available for sale on the lot.

Word: Inverse
Meaning: contrasting in influence or direction
Example: When you read a palindrome in reverse; there is no inverse interpretation so the word will read the same.

Word: Inversion
Meaning: a situation in which something is changed so that it is the opposite of what it used to be
Example: Lower becoming cooler than upper air is called a temperature inversion.

Word: Invert
Meaning: to flip-flop direction in status; stance or associations
Example: The recipe called for the cook to bake the pineapple upside down cake in a pan and then to invert the cake face down onto a platter.

Word: Invertebrate
Meaning: animal without backbone
Example: The science teacher wanted us to study the snail; an invertebrate animal.

Word: Investigate
Meaning: to examine; look into; or scrutinize in order to discover something hidden or secret
Example: In order to find the murderer; the detective would have to investigate the dark building for evidence.

Word: Investment
Meaning: the use of money; time; or effort to make a profit or result
Example: The decline of sales made Jack feel nervous about his hefty investment in the store.

Word: Inveterate
Meaning: have a particular interest or habit that is unlikely to change
Example: Because Janet was an inveterate traveler; it seemed as though she lived at the airport.

Word: Invidious
Meaning: unpleasant and likely to cause bad feelings in other people
Example: The dictator’s invidious acts caused the people to rise up against him.

Word: Invigilate
Meaning: to watch people taking a test to ensure that they do not cheat
Example: In an effort to cut down on cheating; a proctor was hired to invigilate the test takers closely.

Word: Invigorate
Meaning: energize or give life
Example: Hopefully the energy drink will invigorate me so I can work all night on my paper.

Word: Invigorating
Meaning: giving strength; energy; or good health
Example: Some people say the warm springs are invigorating because of their healing powers.

Word: Invincible
Meaning: not possible to be defeated or harmed
Example: The teenager jumped off the building because he thought he was invincible and unable to get hurt.

Word: Inviolable
Meaning: never to be broken; infringed; ignored or dishonored
Example: Her parents made it clear that the rules of curfew were inviolable.

Word: Inviolate
Meaning: something to be respected and free or safe from harm
Example: Secured in a glass display case; the painting was kept inviolate.

Word: Invisible
Meaning: not visible to the eye
Example: Bree thought the scar from her surgery would be an ugly; red mark; but it was invisible.

Word: Invocation 
Meaning: a method of asking for assistance from a higher power
Example: During the invocation; the church leader asked for love; happiness; and good fortune for the newborn baby.

Word: Invoice
Meaning: an itemized statement of items or work done with their charges for these; bill
Example: Parents appreciated not having monthly tuition payments altered; and the invoice provided clear documentation of the expenses incurred throughout the year.

Word: Invoke
Meaning: to request aid; usually from a deity
Example: During the baptism; the priest will invoke a lifetime of blessings for the infant.

Word: Involuntary
Meaning: done without thought or without planning
Example: My involuntary response was to jump back from the snake.

Word: Involved
Meaning: included; a part of something
Example: Emily is involved in many school activities; including band and track.

Word: Invulnerable 
Meaning: not capable of being damaged or injured
Example: The police officer knew he could die any day because he was not invulnerable.

Word: Inward
Meaning: felt in your own mind but not revealed to other people
Example: After narrowly missing a dog crossing the street; Beth breathed an inward sigh of relief.

Word: Inward
Meaning: toward the inside
Example: The pastry chef rolled the two corners of the dough inward so that they could meet in the middle.

Word: Ion
Meaning: a cluster of atoms or a single atom carrying an electrical charge
Example: Since the atom has acquired an electric charge; it is now referred to as an ion.

Word: Iota 
Meaning: a tiny amount
Example: If there is even one iota of doubt; the jury should not find the defendant guilty.

Word: Ipso facto
Meaning: a statement meaning “by that very fact or act” or “it must be true because of”
Example: There are many more men in Alaska than there are women; ipso facto marriage comes easier for a lady.

Word: Irascible
Meaning: easily made angry
Example: It does not take much to aggravate my irascible neighbor who is annoyed by any little noise.

Word: Irate
Meaning: tremendously angry
Example: Jim was irate when he found his wife in bed with another woman.

Word: Ire
Meaning: hostility triggered by a grievance or insult
Example: My ire stems from the salesperson ignoring me while she talked on the telephone.

Word: Iridescent
Meaning: exhibiting a wide range of brilliant colors like a rainbow
Example: The singer’s iridescent necklace glowed brightly under the spotlight.

Word: Irk
Meaning: annoy; irritate
Example: Harry likes to irk us with his irrelevant questions.

Word: Irked
Meaning: annoyed; irritated
Example: The woman’s loud chewing irked the customers sitting nearby.

Word: Irksome
Meaning: irritatingly bothersome
Example: Hank's fellow employees try to avoid him because of his irksome behavior.

Word: Iron Curtain
Meaning: an unstoppable blockade
Example: As the government agency tried to penetrate the iron curtain of the foreign country; it refused to give the agency access to their information.

Word: Ironclad
Meaning: coated or wrapped in iron usually for protection
Example: During the American Civil War; two ironclad ships fought each other without causing much damage due to the strong metal shield of the ships’ outer material.

Word: Ironically
Meaning: referring to something being unexpected or ironic
Example: Ironically my boyfriend and I married at an early age despite our parents’ attempts to separate us.

Word: Irony
Meaning: a form of humor in which you use words to express the opposite of what the words really mean
Example: Because I could not detect any irony in Jason’s tone; I knew he was serious.

Word: Irrational
Meaning: devoid of reason
Example: Because my son has started to exhibit irrational behaviors; I am taking him to see a therapist.

Word: Irreconcilable
Meaning: incapable of being brought into harmony or adjustment.
Example: Feeling that their issues were irreconcilable; the couple decided to file for divorce.

Word: Irreducible
Meaning: not able to be reduced or lessened
Example: While the third-grader was working on her math test; she realized that the fraction on her test was irreducible because it was already in its lowest possible terms.

Word: Irrefragable
Meaning: not able to be disputed or contested
Example: During the trial; the bank teller’s irrefragable evidence couldn’t be contested by any other witnesses.

Word: Irrefragable
Meaning: not able to be disputed or disproved
Example: My college professor requires us to question all scientific evidence; even that which is considered fact or irrefragable.

Word: Irrefutable
Meaning: that which cannot be proven false
Example: The police arrested their suspect only after obtaining irrefutable proof he was the robber.

Word: Irregardless
Meaning: no matter what the circumstance or situation
Example: Though the sneakiy boy constantly found himself trouble; his mother loved him irregardless.

Word: Irregular
Meaning: unusual or odd
Example: We could not plan our day due to the irregular weather.

Word: Irrelevant
Meaning: not pertaining to or insignificant
Example: Why does Cathy spend so much time telling me irrelevant facts that have nothing to do with me?

Word: Irremediable
Meaning: unable to be remedied; cured; corrected or repaired
Example: Bursting into tears; the young mother was appalled when she heard her baby had an irremediable disease which would cause severe pain for the rest of her life.

Word: Irreparable
Meaning: not capable of being fixed
Example: Since the damage to my car is irreparable; I need to buy a new vehicle.

Word:  Irrepressible 
Meaning: not controllable
Example: Jason could not control his irrepressible temper.

Word: Irreproachable
Meaning: without fault
Example: The police captain is expected to have irreproachable behavior.

Word: Irresistible
Meaning: to attractive and tempting to be resisted
Example: The smell of the irresistible cake seemed to call my name as escaped out of the oven.

Word: Irresolute
Meaning: not certain about something
Example: As the troubled young girl faced her school principal; she was irresolute and did not know what to expect as a consequence for her behavior.

Word: Irrespective
Meaning: without regard for conditions; circumstances; or consequences; regardless of
Example: Our accountant explained that we would receive the tax credit irrespective of our income level.

Word: Irresponsible
Meaning: describes someone that does not show a sense of responsibility or obligation
Example: My irresponsible cousin has a ton of homework to do; but he has decided to sleep in late and play games instead of doing it.

Word: Irretrievable
Meaning: unable to recover or reverse back to what it was
Example: During a fight harsh words are irretrievable since they may be kept in the person’s mind forever.

Word: Irreverent
Meaning: displaying little respect to a person; thing; or idea 
Example: When the knight did not bow before his queen; he acted in an irreverent manner.

Word: Irreversible
Meaning: not able to be altered or undone; unchangeable
Example: Some acts are irreversible like having a child because you can’t return the baby.

Word: Irrevocable
Meaning: not able to be changed; reversed; or recovered; final
Example: Even though you are unhappy with your inheritance; the will is irrevocable and cannot be changed.

Word: Irrigate
Meaning: to provide water
Example: Before you bandage the wound; irrigate it to flush out foreign substances.

Word: Irrigation
Meaning: a process of providing water by artificial means
Example: With our new irrigation system; we will be able to make plants thrive even in dry terrains.

Word: Irritable
Meaning: getting annoyed or angry
Example: Mel is an irritable person; always getting on peoples nerves.

Word: Irritate
Meaning: to cause or induce displeasure or inflammation on any portion of body
Example: Becky was pleased to find a body wash that contains aloe which didn’t irritate her skin.

Word: Irritation
Meaning: feeling bother or annoyed by something that is time consuming or particularly frustrating
Example: Julia’s irritation with her best friend only grew because she kept making the same mistakes and completely ignoring Julia’s advice.

Word: Irrupt
Meaning: to enter or burst in suddenly
Example: Several non-native species were able to irrupt into the area and cause destruction after their sudden arrival.

Word: Isle
Meaning: island
Example: The deserted isle was in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean.

Word: Isolation
Meaning: the condition of being located away from others
Example: The worst prisoners are placed in isolation so they cannot hurt other inmates.

Word: Isolationism
Meaning: a rule of seclusion followed by a group or nation that chooses not to interact with other sects or countries
Example: Because of the rules of isolationism members of the sect were only allowed to interact with people of their community.

Word: Isotonic
Meaning: having equal tension
Example: The beverage is isotonic; with equal concentrations of sugar and salt.

Word: Isotope
Meaning: any of an element’s forms that differ because of the atom’s neutron count
Example: Just like an isotope; you are unlike your sibling because of the differences in your chemical makeups.

Word: Issue
Meaning: to deliver or give out
Example: No one was at the office to issue my driver’s license; so I will have to wait until tomorrow to pick it up.

Word: Isthmus
Meaning: a narrow strip of land; bordered on both sides by water; and connecting two larger landmasses
Example: They had to travel over the isthmus to the other end of the island.

Word: Itemize
Meaning: to break something down into the individual parts that comprise it
Example: An itemized bill is one that breaks down the listed cost into each part that makes up the bill; so you know what parts of it are the most expensive.

Word: Iterate
Meaning: said or done again and again; repeated
Example: I will iterate our policy over and over to be perfectly clear.

Word: Iterate
Meaning: to verbalize or say
Example: I had to iterate my answer for the mathematical problem a second time because my partner did not hear me the first time.

Word: Iteration
Meaning: the process of repeating a statement or sequence of some sort
Example: The only difference in the latest iteration of the videogame is the change of setting.

Word: Itinerant
Meaning: moving around from location to location
Example: The documentary follows the life of an itinerant homeless man who never sleeps in a location more than once.

Word: Itinerary
Meaning: a detailed schedule usually for a trip
Example: With his itinerary in hand; the tourist began his first day in Ireland by walking to each place on his list so he could see every attraction.

Word: Its
Meaning: related to something that was mentioned previously 
Example: After three days; the sick dog was allowed to leave its crate.

Word: Jabber
Meaning: to talk rapidly; indistinctly; or unintelligibly; to utter gibberish or nonsense
Example: I get nervous when my sister begins to jabber about all the nonsense that happens in her world.

Word: Jackanapes
Meaning: a conceited; sarcastic; and/or brutish individual
Example: Narcissus was such a conceited jackanapes that when he glimpsed himself in a mirror; he fell in love.

Word: Jaded
Meaning: depleted of excitement and enthusiasm; usually after having had too much of something
Example: After being on an airplane for nearly twenty-four hours; Henry is a bit jaded and never wants to travel again.

Word: Jagged
Meaning: sharp; pointed
Example: Jagged splinters sticking out of the wood stuck inside the barefoot boy’s foot when he stepped on top of the board.

Word: Jape
Meaning: a silly plan done on a person; practical joke
Example: My little sister Jessica thought it was funny to put a frog in my rain boot for a jape.

Word: Jape
Meaning: a practical joke or trick that you play on someone
Example: Hank’s mother didn’t find his April’s fool’s jape funny and punished him for the prank.

Word: Jargon
Meaning: communication that a person cannot comprehend
Example: If you include legal jargon in the article; only law students and lawyers will be able to understand your position.

Word: Jarring
Meaning: to be altered or changed usually in an irritating or unbearable way
Example: When the teenager’s jarring music was blasting in the car next to me; I became aware that I would enjoy the silence once he was gone.

Word: Jaundiced
Meaning: tending to dislike; criticize; or resent something
Example: Because she always received terrible customer service; my grandmother was jaundiced against the company.

Word: Jaunt
Meaning: a short journey or excursion for pleasure or refreshment
Example: The short jaunt that Janice took around the mountainside resulted in a lengthy search when she failed to return.

Word: Jauntily
Meaning: in an energetic way
Example: After receiving a promotion at work; Jill walked home jauntily.

Word: Jaunty
Meaning: expressing cheer and self-assurance
Example: Craig’s bright and jaunty tie put a smile on everyone’s face.

Word: Jawbone
Meaning: the skull area below the mouth
Example: During the fight; the young many broke his jawbone after the other man hit him on the lower side of his face.

Word: Jealous
Meaning: feeling resentment against someone because of that person's rivalry; success; or advantages
Example: Feeling jealous of her older sister’s small frame; the overweight teen refused to go prom dress shopping unless she could go alone.

Word: Jeer
Meaning: ridicule; taunt; scoff at
Example: When the basketball bounced off the rim for the second time; Nolan knew that the crowd would probably jeer at him.

Word: Jejune
Meaning: unsophisticated
Example: The billionaire couple refused to eat the jejune dish of chicken wings and tater tots.

Word: Jeopardize
Meaning: to put at risk
Example: Do not jeopardize your good grade by failing to turn in your assignment.

Word: Jeopardy
Meaning: at risk of loss or harm
Example: If you do not take your medicine; you will put your health in jeopardy.

Word: Jeremiad
Meaning: a long; sad list of complaints; sometimes produced as a literary work
Example: The elegantly written book was actually a jeremiad that laid out the author’s complaints against the current government.

Word: Jest
Meaning: words that are spoken as humor 
Example: When confronted by the teacher; the student said his words were in jest and not meant to be taken seriously.

Word: Jettison
Meaning: to eliminate something
Example: In order to conserve fuel; the pilot was forced to jettison some of his passengers’ suitcases.

Word: Jibe
Meaning: to agree; harmonize
Example: The findings of the court did not jibe with the testimony of the witness; angering the judge.

Word: Jingoism
Meaning: extreme patriotism for one’s country that often shows itself through aggression towards other nations
Example: The man’s jingoism led him to attempt to destroy a federal building as a show of loyalty for his own nation.

Word: Jinx
Meaning: a person or thing supposed to bring bad luck
Example: I lied on my resume and fear this big mistake could jinx my chances of snaring a great job.

Word: Jittery
Meaning: shaky and nervous
Example: The nervous puppy is always jittery when we go to see the vet.

Word: Jive
Meaning: to deceive; to be deceptive
Example: "Beth yelled at her husband; ""I know you went to see your mistress last night so don’t try to jive me!"""

Word: Jive
Meaning: slang talk that is meaningless and dishonest
Example: The conman tried to use his jive talk to trick people into giving him money.

Word: Jockey
Meaning: one who rides racehorses competitively
Example: Jockeys must be brave to ride horses at high speeds in such tight quarters.

Word: Jocose
Meaning: playful; humurous
Example: Robert is well known for his jocose disposition; always makes everyone around him laugh.

Word: Jocular
Meaning: characterized by joking; humorous or playful
Example: The jocular man is known for his funny punchlines.

Word: Jocund
Meaning: in high spirits; cheery 
Example: Because Patrick was feeling quite jocund after drinking a few beers; he could not stop smiling.

Word: Joie de Vivre
Meaning: ecstatic enjoyment of life
Example: Everyone should practice Joie de Vivre; enjoying life to the absolute fullest regardless of what bad things may happen along the way.

Word: Joint
Meaning: shared or made by two or more entities
Example: This is a joint project that my partner and I must work on to complete on time for chemistry class.

Word: Joist
Meaning: a wooden or metal beam that serves as a support for the ceiling or floor
Example: Chipotle has an industrial décor that enables guests to see the long metal joist that runs across the ceiling and supports the roof.

Word: Jolt
Meaning: to push or shake abruptly and roughly
Example: We hope that the new stores opening in the downtown will help jolt the economy back to life.

Word: Jostle
Meaning: to compete or struggle for something
Example: As soon as the coach makes the announcement; the football players will start to jostle for the position of team captain.

Word: Journey
Meaning: usually a long difficult period pertaining to personal change and growth
Example: Robin has hurt so many people on her long journey through addiction; she’s now focused on helping others.

Word: Jovial
Meaning: warm and friendly
Example: Stories describe Santa Claus as a jovial man who gives toys to children.

Word: Jowls
Meaning: the lower cheek attached to the jawbones or mandibles
Example: The strong-faced man had the same jowls as his grandfather and embraced his jawline as a coveted family trait.

Word: Joyful
Meaning: feeling happy and cheerful
Example: Making a joyful noise; the choir smiled as they sang their cheerful hymn.

Word: Joyous
Meaning: full of joy; happy
Example: A joyous celebration such as this requires cake; music; and elaborate decorations!

Word: Jubilant
Meaning: filled with joy
Example: I am jubilant to learn that my sister is finally having a baby.

Word: Judicial review
Meaning: a high courts review of a ruling by a lower court or actions of the legislative branch
Example: During the judicial review; the judge considered all of the evidence that had been presented to the lower court judge.

Word: Judicious
Meaning: showing intelligence and good judgment
Example: Because of the doctor’s experience; he was a judicious fellow who was well-respected by his colleagues.

Word: Juggernaut
Meaning: a large item that is seen as unstoppable and can destroy anything in its way
Example: With the reveal of its best-selling innovation; the software company has become a juggernaut in the tech industry.

Word: Jumble
Meaning: a typically messy pile of things
Example: Most teenage boys leave their things in a messy jumble; making their rooms look more like disaster areas than places of clean habitation.

Word: Jump
Meaning: to react suddenly often unexpected and quickly
Example: The loud boom heard was caused by an earthquake that made everyone jump out of their seats.

Word: Jumpstart
Meaning: to start something quickly by providing it with extra help
Example: To jumpstart his understanding of the math concepts; Felipe hired an algebra guru to tutor him before his classes start.

Word: Jumpy
Meaning: behaving in an anxious or nervous way
Example: Because he is afraid of the police; the jittery driver appeared jumpy when he was pulled over by the officer.

Word: Junction
Meaning: a location where roads or lines intersect or meet
Example: The city’s main interstates meet at the area known as Spaghetti Junction.

Word: Juncture
Meaning: an important point in a process or activity
Example: At this juncture; we are unable to continue with the project because of a lack of funding.

Word: Junta
Meaning: an armed group that comes into power by using force 
Example: Armed with the newest weapons; the junta faced little to no resistance as it drove out the government.

Word: Jurassic
Meaning: a geologic period that occurred over 150 million years ago and is marked by the presence of dinosaurs and the first appearance of birds
Example: During the Jurassic period; humans didn’t exist; and dinosaurs ruled the earth.

Word: Jurisdiction
Meaning: the valid power to make official decisions and rulings
Example: The probate court has jurisdiction over the validity of wills.

Word: Jurisprudence
Meaning: the part of philosophy that focuses on the origins of the law and the decisions made by the judicial systems
Example: Even in high school; Evan read a great deal on jurisprudence because he knew he wanted to become a lawyer.

Word: Jurist
Meaning: an individual with a deep awareness of the law
Example: Since I know my uncle has been a judge for fifteen years; I highly respect him as a jurist.

Word: Justice
Meaning: the outcome of using regulations to impartially judge and penalize a person or group accused of a criminal act
Example: Some people believe justice is blind to wealthy individuals because most of them don't receive harsh consequences.

Word: Justifiable
Meaning: well founded; rightful
Example: Even though a punch in the nose may not seem to be justifiable to many people; sometimes it just has to be done to get the point across to a bully.

Word: Justification
Meaning: an explanation of how something is reasonable or correct
Example: Phillip was fired when he was unable to offer justification for his repeated tardiness to work.

Word: Justify 
Meaning: to offer a reasonable explanation for a certain behavior or action
Example: Ted tried to justify his wife’s death with a claim of self-defense.

Word: Jut
Meaning: to stick out from something in a noticeable way
Example: The edge of the cliff seemed to jut out over the ocean and disappear into a blanket of clouds.

Word: Juvenile
Meaning: in a manner that is childish and unpleasant or referring to a young person 
Example: Cliff may be mayor now; but as a teenager; he was a juvenile delinquent who once spray-painted the police station.

Word: Juxtaposition
Meaning: the fact of two things being seen or placed closed together with contrasting effect 
Example: The reality clearly shows a cultural juxtaposition between rich people and poor people.

Word: Kaleidoscope
Meaning: changing colors; shapes; and/or patterns in a general vicinity
Example: Clouds are a kaleidoscope of shapes; sizes; patterns; and colors.

Word: Kaput 
Meaning: completely done; not functioning or dead
Example: Because my car is kaput and not working; I need to buy a new vehicle.

Word: Karma
Meaning: an energy or force that causes one’s fate to be determined by one’s deeds
Example: John’s bad luck proves karma is paying him back for his misdeeds.

Word: Keel
Meaning: overturn; capsize
Example: Feeling like it might keel at any minute; the kayaker tried to steady himself with his oar.

Word: Keen
Meaning: strong or highly developed
Example: His keen sense of observation allowed him to notice that his keys were not where he had left them.

Word: Keening
Meaning: wailing or crying with grief
Example: The keening mother could not believe that her child was gone; even though the officers that had found his body told her so through her tears.

Word: Keenly
Meaning: deeply or intensely
Example: Out of fear my daughter wasn't telling the truth; I stared keenly at her.

Word: Keenness
Meaning: the quality of being eager or excitedly enthusiastic
Example: Milo’s keenness for learning showed in his excellent work.

Word: Keepsake
Meaning: an object retained in memory of something or someone
Example: After the brave soldier lost his life in combat; the Army gave the mother his dog tags as a keepsake.

Word: Keepsake
Meaning: a small item or souvenir that is kept as a reminder of a person or event
Example: Wanda bought a small trinket from the gift shop as a memento of her trip to Paris.

Word: Kempt
Meaning: neat and tidy
Example: Although the older child always looked kempt; the toddler always arrived to daycare with disheveled clothing and uncombed hair.

Word: Ken
Meaning: awareness or understanding
Example: After further reading the novel; the ken of the antagonist’s motive to harm the protagonist became clear.

Word: Keratin
Meaning: a strong natural protein that is the base of hair; nails; hoofs; and horns
Example: Although other proteins are found in skin cells; keratin makes up a large percentage of these tissues.

Word: Kerfuffle 
Meaning: an uproar or fuss
Example: When rival soccer fans got in a kerfuffle in the pub; the police were called.

Word: Kernel
Meaning: a small seed or grain
Example: A popcorn kernel that never burst got stuck at my tooth while eating my snack at the movies.

Word: Kerosene
Meaning: oil that is used a fuel
Example: Running out of kerosene; the traveler’s lamp began to flicker and eventually went dim.

Word: Khaki
Meaning: a light brown or green cloth made usually of cotton or wool that is traditionally used for making uniforms
Example: The man’s brown khaki suit stood out amongst the traditional black tuxedoes in the room.

Word: Kibbutz
Meaning: an Israeli farm communal settlement that allows anyone to come and stay as long as they work
Example: A social movement of the early 1900s; many Israelis chose to live and work together on a communal farm called a kibbutz.

Word: Kibitz
Meaning: to sit in on a conversation or event and offer unsolicited advice
Example: Watching the men play roulette; a passerby began to kibitz and tell the gamblers where to place their bets.

Word: Kibitzer
Meaning: an onlooker who offers unwanted advice or commentary
Example: The kibitzer stood at the edge of the chess table irritating the players with his unwanted tips.

Word: Kibosh
Meaning: to examine; finish or halt something
Example: After realizing that the newly hired butler had a background in stealing; the rich homeowner put the kibosh on his employment immediately.

Word: Kick off
Meaning: to start something
Example: We will kick off our weekend with a Fourth of July BBQ.

Word: Kidney
Meaning: one of a pair of organs located in the right and left side of the abdomen that filter waste from the body
Example: Diabetes related kidney disease required the patient to undergo dialysis to help clear waste from his body.

Word: Killjoy
Meaning: a person who spoils the fun or pleasure of others
Example: Our next door neighbor is a killjoy who calls the police anytime we have a party at our house.

Word: Kilometer
Meaning: a unit of metric measurement used to measure length or distance
Example: The farm home measures exactly a kilometer from its closest neighbor.

Word: Kilter
Meaning: not working well; out of order
Example: An unexpected surge of both the flu and strep throat threw the unprepared clinic out of kilter.

Word: Kin
Meaning: people related by blood or marriage
Example: Her kin was coming to stay for the annual family Christmas event.

Word: Kind
Meaning: caring; nice
Example: A kind volunteer showed compassion by giving out blankets to flood victims at the local shelter.

Word: Kindhearted
Meaning: having a kind and caring nature
Example: The sweet and kindhearted child loved to share her toys with other kids.

Word: Kindle
Meaning: to motivate or inspire
Example: The mother hoped the prison inmate's speech would kindle her son to change his rebellious ways.

Word: Kindliness
Meaning: kindness; compassion
Example: The sweet woman’s kindliness was well known in her small community.

Word: Kindling
Meaning: tinder
Example: Kindling was gathered to start a fire close to the campsite.

Word: Kindly
Meaning: friendly or amiable
Example: The kindly old lady gave the trick or treaters way more candy than any of the other people that lived on this block.

Word: Kindness
Meaning: the attribute of friendliness; generosity; charity; or other features that are considered kind
Example: We prefer to treat people with kindness most of the time; but if someone is cruel to us we find it easy to be cruel in kind.

Word: Kindred
Meaning: related in thought or genetically
Example: My best friend is my kindred spirit who usually identifies with all the crazy things I say.

Word: Kinesthetic
Meaning: describes learning that occurs through body movement or position
Example: Kinesthetic learners need lots of hands on opportunities to accurately grasp subject matter.

Word: Kinetic 
Meaning: associated with motion
Example: Kinetic learners are students who learn better when they are allowed to be active.

Word: King
Meaning: the ruler of an empire or kingdom
Example: As king of the monarchy; the ruler was in a powerful position and made decisions for thousands of people.

Word: Kingdom
Meaning: an empire or monarchy ruled by royalty
Example: One medieval kingdom was situated in the middle of the forest and was ruled by a reclusive king.

Word: Kismet
Meaning: inescapable fate
Example: As a romantic; I believe kismet will lead me to my one true love.

Word: Kith
Meaning: friends and acquaintances
Example: The man was such a scrooge; he even loathed his own kith and kin!

Word: Kitsch
Meaning: tacky or of poor quality
Example: Kitsch lava lamps seem cheesy today but are still somewhat popular.

Word: Kleptocracy
Meaning: a government with corrupt leaders that uses their power to exploit their own people and resources for greater personal wealth
Example: In this kleptocracy; our leaders have been placing extortionate taxes on us in order to gain greater wealth for themselves.

Word: Kleptomaniac
Meaning: one who steals compulsively
Example: The kleptomaniac struggled to stop stealing.

Word: Knack
Meaning: a natural ability
Example: Cooking from scratch with no recipe was a knack for Rosie and her mother.

Word: Knapsack
Meaning: a bag strapped on the back that is used for carrying supplies or personal belongings
Example: The hunter always kept a knapsack with fresh water and a compass in case he was to get lost.

Word: Knave
Meaning: a dishonest individual
Example: The knave volunteered to clean the church so he could have access to the petty cash box.

Word: Knavish
Meaning: crafty; cunning
Example: The knavish wolf was able to convince the pig to let him into his home.

Word: Knead
Meaning: to work and press into a mass; usually with the hands
Example: I watched Frank knead dough as he pushed down and out; stretching the dough flatter and flatter.

Word: Knee-jerk
Meaning: an automatic or impulsive reaction
Example: The guilty child’s knee-jerk reaction to being accused of stealing the money was to blame it on someone else.

Word: Kneel
Meaning: to bend down on ones knees
Example: The knight continued to kneel as the queen presented him with an award.

Word: Knell
Meaning: an indication that something has come to a conclusion or an end
Example: Everyone took the company president’s resignation as the company’s knell of bankruptcy.

Word: Knew
Meaning: understood; was aware of
Example: I knew that I needed to go to sleep; but decided to stay up just a little longer.

Word: Knickerbocker
Meaning: a descendant of the Dutch settlers of New York
Example: The knickerbocker was a settler that arrived in New York long before the United States was independent.

Word: Knight
Meaning: a man who fought in battles on a horse during the Middle Ages
Example: The knight galloped to the castle and broke in to save the princess.

Word: Knighthood
Meaning: having the title of a person who served a lord in armored battle
Example: Knighthood was granted to those who agreed to serve the manor’s lord.

Word: Knit
Meaning: to closely join or combine things/people together
Example: The bride and groom hope that their marriage would knit their families together and end the feud once and for all.

Word: Knock-off
Meaning: a copy of a product that sells for less than the original version
Example: The knock-off purses were designed to look just like the originals but are sold for a lot less.

Word: Knock-on
Meaning: one action or event that causes several other things to happen
Example: Businesses shutting down had a knock-on effect on the economy that led to several negative effects.

Word: Knock
Meaning: to hit a surface in a noisy way
Example: You must knock loudly on the door when you go to grandmother’s house since she is hard of hearing.

Word: Knoll
Meaning: a small hill
Example: The charming inn was set on a knoll in the country.

Word: Knot
Meaning: a tangled mass or lump
Example: After being tossed around in Diane’s purse; the silver chain had worked itself into a tangled knot.

Word: Knotty
Meaning: full of knots; tangles; or lumps
Example: The girl’s hair was always knotty and hard to comb out after she went swimming.

Word: Know-how
Meaning: the knowledge and skill to be able to do something correctly
Example: I don't have the required know-how to build a website; but I am willing to learn.

Word: Know
Meaning: to understand or be aware of
Example: The only thing I know about the area is that there is a park close to the river.

Word: Knowingly
Meaning: done deliberately; with full knowledge
Example: Knowingly omitting the truth is considered the same as lying.

Word: Knowledge
Meaning: the understanding of a subject
Example: I have a great deal of knowledge in math; being able to carry out complicated mathematical processes that required years of studying.

Word: Knowledgeable
Meaning: educated and well-informed
Example: The professor was knowledgeable about history but knew very little about science.

Word: Knucklehead
Meaning: a person who is stupid and hard-headed
Example: The knucklehead constantly makes stupid decisions; like stealing cars and robbing banks.

Word: Kosher
Meaning: acceptable; appropriate
Example: Although she liked him; the girl was not convinced it was kosher to date her sister’s ex beau.

Word: Kowtow 
Meaning: to submit to another person without any struggle
Example: The dictator beheaded the man who refused to kowtow to him by kissing his feet.

Word: Kremlin
Meaning: a citadel within a Russian city; or specifically the seat of Russian government
Example: The Kremlin is the seat of Russian political power; where the President of the Russian Federation stays.

Word: Kudos
Meaning: praise for one’s accomplishments
Example: Although the movie director received kudos from the critics; the public hated the film.

Word: Kumbaya
Meaning: a word stemming from a 1930s folk song of the same name that represents peace and tranquility
Example: The campers set in kumbaya circles and hold hands as they sang peaceful songs around the blazing campfire.

Word: Kvetch
Meaning: a strong complainer or whiner
Example: As the kvetch entered the department store; the clerk recognized and winced at the thought that she would have to hear all the excuses and objections to her returned purchases.

Word: Label
Meaning: to put a small tag or ticket on something as a way to identify something about it
Example: Before we sell these items at the garage sale; we will need to label each one with a price tag.

Word: Labile
Meaning: easily or frequently changed
Example: My body’s response to dairy products is labile and usually hurts worse when I exercise after consumption.

Word: Labor union
Meaning: a group of workers that have organized to protect themselves and their interests
Example: The teacher labor union organized a strike to protest low pay all across the state.

Word: Labor
Meaning: to work diligently
Example: The dwarves would labor in the mines all day and only return to their cottage at night when work was finished.

Word: Laboratory
Meaning: a room or building equipped with the necessary tools for science research or experiments to take place
Example: Because our laboratory does not have the necessary equipment for the study; a workshop down the street must be used.

Word: Labored
Meaning: worked
Example: Hercules labored to complete the twelve parts of his difficult quest.

Word: Laborious
Meaning: something requiring much physical or mental effort
Example: When you just start exercising it may seem laborious; but over time it gets easier.

Word: Labyrinth
Meaning: a complicated irregular network of passages or paths in which it is difficult to find one's way; a maze.
Example: At the farm; I found it very easy to get lost in the labyrinth of corn stalks.

Word: Laceration
Meaning: an irregular open wound caused by a blunt impact to soft tissue
Example: Because the laceration was so deep and ugly; Dick was rushed to the emergency room by an ambulance.

Word: Lachrymose
Meaning: easily brought to tears
Example: After her husband died; my aunt became a lachrymose woman who couldn’t stop crying.

Word: Lackadaisical
Meaning: feeling or showing a lack of interest or enthusiasm
Example: After the surgery; I was lackadaisical for several days.

Word: Lackey
Meaning: a servant that does menial tasks
Example: The wealthy gent’s lackey toted his luggage all over the resort.

Word: Lackluster
Meaning: lacking brilliance and shine; dull; not exceptional; not worthy of special merit; attention; or interest
Example: Since she noticed that the response she was getting on the dating website was rather lackluster; Beth decided to spice up her profile and post a better photo.

Word: Laconic
Meaning: brief and concise; using few words
Example: During the laconic phone call; the divorcing spouses only said what was absolutely necessary.

Word: Lacquer
Meaning: a clear or colored coating that is painted on wood or metal
Example: Lacquer was added to the dresser’s surface to give it extra shine.

Word: Lacuna
Meaning: a gap or missing part
Example: The story’s plot was missing; creating a lacuna in the middle of the text.

Word: Lad
Meaning: a young boy
Example: Police questioned the lad for an hour; but were not able to pinpoint him as a suspect.

Word: Laden
Meaning: weighed down by a large amount
Example: The party table is laden with assorted snacks and beverages.

Word: Laggard
Meaning: an individual or group that falls behind others
Example: In the race; James was the laggard who finished in last place.

Word: Lagniappe
Meaning: a small gift given to a customer when purchasing something
Example: As a lagniappe; the department store offered free popcorn and drinks to all its customers.

Word: Laid-back
Meaning: relaxed and easy-going
Example: Angie wished to give up her busy; New York City lifestyle for laid-back beach life.

Word: Lair
Meaning: a place inhabited by a wild animal; often a cave or a hole in the ground
Example: After stalking a sheep and ripping it to pieces; the tiger dragged its fresh kill to its lair.

Word: Laissez-faire
Meaning: The policy of not interfering in the affairs of others 
Example: Since the dictator is killing Christians in his country; there is no way Christian nations can simply do nothing while observing a laissez-faire policy.

Word: Laity
Meaning: members of the church but who are not ordained ministers or priests
Example: Holding confession; the priest had the laity line up one by one to confess their sins.

Word: Lambaste
Meaning: to criticize someone harshly
Example: Even with its success; harsh party leaders continued to lambaste the plan for healthcare reform.

Word: Lambent
Meaning: refers to the glowing and flickering of a fire
Example: A lambent glow flickered from the low burning campfire.

Word: Lame
Meaning: having disabled legs or feet
Example: Lame in his feet; the once energetic man was no longer able to move around.

Word: Lament
Meaning: to express sorrow or regret; to mourn aloud
Example: I lament by crying my eyes out.

Word: Lamentable
Meaning: worthy of criticism or regret
Example: Few events are as lamentable as an attack on innocent people by terrorists.

Word: Lampoon
Meaning: 
Example: Because Freddy posted an uncomplimentary lampoon of his boss on his Facebook page; he soon found himself looking for new employment.

Word: Lance
Meaning: a long; thin pole with a sharp point carried by horsemen
Example: Every tribesman carries around a lance whose tip is so sharp that it pierces the flesh at the slightest touch.

Word: Landfill
Meaning: a place where waste is buried underground
Example: All trash placed in the city’s dumpster was buried deep in the landfill.

Word: Landform
Meaning: a mass made up of materials typically considered land; such as dirt; stone; sand; etc
Example: Sailors that are out at sea often look for some sort of landform to signal the end of their journey; though they may pass some islands that aren’t their final destination.

Word: Landlocked
Meaning: completely surrounded by land
Example: Many landlocked countries in Africa lack the natural resources needed to sustain a stable economy.

Word: Landlord
Meaning: a person who leases their property to another person or company
Example: Beating on her delinquent tenant’s door; the landlord threatened to file a lawsuit if rent wasn’t paid.

Word: Landmark
Meaning: a well-known object in a particular place that helps a person know where they are
Example: It wasn’t an X; but the small stone that served as a landmark for the location of the buried treasure.

Word: Landscape
Meaning: to decorate with plants
Example: To add extra character; the painter always makes sure to landscape his scenes with at least some greenery.

Word: Landslide
Meaning: a win that was gained by a large margin
Example: After losing the election in a landslide victory; the candidate called his opponent to concede defeat.

Word: Languid
Meaning: very slow and relaxed
Example: I always get my rest when I take a languid cruise vacation.

Word: Languish
Meaning: to be or become weak or dull; lose strength or vigor; fail to make progress or be successful
Example: If Congress allows the budget bill to languish on the shelf; then the country will find itself in a financial crisis.

Word: Languishing
Meaning: losing strength; becoming feeble and weak
Example: After many weeks lost at sea; the languishing men were quickly losing all strength.

Word: Languor
Meaning: weariness or exhaustion
Example: If you do not drink enough water; you will become dehydrated and fall into a state of languor.

Word: Languorous
Meaning: lazy and lethargic
Example: The languorous teenager would rather lay in bed playing video games than actually do something constructive.

Word: Languorous
Meaning: lacking in energy and enthusiasm
Example: After working all week; the exhausted woman wanted to enjoy a languorous day in bed.

Word: Lanky
Meaning: awkwardly tall and skinny
Example: Long-limbed and lanky; it was hard for the man to fit inside the compact car.

Word: Lantern
Meaning: a lamp with a protective case around the flame
Example: A brown rustic lantern hung from the porch and lit the way for weary travelers.

Word: Lapse
Meaning: A temporary failure; a slip
Example: His lapse in judgement led him to fall behind in his studies.

Word: Larceny
Meaning: unlawful taking of personal property
Example: After finding his computer was not where he left it; he accused his sister of larceny.

Word: Large
Meaning: of greater size than normal
Example: Large birds with great wings flew high over the river valley.

Word: Largesse
Meaning: generous acts of giving gifts or money to a large number of people
Example: Because of the millionaire’s largesse; twenty underprivileged graduates now have college scholarships.

Word: Laryngoscope
Meaning: a medical instrument specifically used to examine the human larynx
Example: Because my voice was hoarse; the doctor had to use a laryngoscope to see if there was anything wrong with my larynx.

Word: Larynx
Meaning: an organ in the neck of humans and animals that contains your vocal cords; voice box
Example: Strain on her larynx caused the singer’s voice to crack.

Word: Lascivious
Meaning: having or showing strong sexual desire
Example: After running naked through the field; he was arrested for lewd and lascivious behavior.

Word: Lassitude
Meaning: tiredness and a lack of energy
Example: After the long race; Jack experienced a feeling of lassitude.

Word: Latch
Meaning: to fasten a door or gate with a latch or a lock
Example: We had to latch the door closed with a lock so it would not fly open when it got windy; since the last storm made a mess.

Word: Latency
Meaning: the period of time that one component in a system is waiting for another component
Example: A system update allowed the system to run faster and reduced any latency or wait time.

Word: Latent
Meaning: existing or present but concealed or inactive
Example: The detective asked the lab technician to search the room for latent fingerprints.

Word: Lateral
Meaning: of or pertaining to the side
Example: A beam runs along the top of the bridge; offering lateral support to the structure.

Word: Latitude
Meaning: having the choice to do something 
Example: My father gave me the latitude to choose my own curfew on prom night.

Word: Latter
Meaning: used to signify the second part of something
Example: My favorite fruits are apples and watermelon; especially the latter on a hot summer day.

Word: Lattice
Meaning: crisscross or diamond pattern with spaces in-between
Example: I pierced through the wooden lattice; splitting the diamond pattern in two.

Word: Laud
Meaning: to praise or glorify
Example: The company decided to laud Jack’s outstanding contributions to the firm.

Word: Laudable
Meaning: deserving to be praised or admired
Example: While Jason did not win the contest; his efforts were laudable enough to be mentioned by the judges.

Word: Laudatory
Meaning: giving praise
Example: The laudatory announcement praised the team’s efforts during the championship game.

Word: Laugh
Meaning: to make the sounds and movements of the face and body that express happiness
Example: The children began to laugh and giggle as the clown performed goofy tricks for them.

Word: Laughing Stock
Meaning: someone who is on the receiving end of embarrassment and degradation
Example: Paul’s lack of common sense caused him to become the laughing stock where he endured many teasing and taunting from his classmates.

Word: Launch
Meaning: to start or set something into motion
Example: The space center prepared to launch the rocket far into outer space.

Word: Lavation
Meaning: a washing or cleansing
Example: She said she expected a thorough kitchen lavation when all she needed to say was that she expected a thorough kitchen cleaning.

Word: Lavish
Meaning: luxurious or elegant
Example: Every room in the five-star hotel was filled with lavish furnishings.

Word: Law of conservation of mass
Meaning: scientific principle that holds that the mass of an object never changes; no matter how the basic parts rearrange themselves
Example: The law of conservation of mass states that matter cannot be created or destroyed in a closed system.

Word: Lawless
Meaning: without law and order
Example: The lawless Wild West was full of bandits and outlaws that didn’t fear the law because there weren’t many people to enforce them.

Word: Lax
Meaning: relaxed and not strict
Example: The lax entry requirements let just about anyone in.

Word: Laxity
Meaning: the state of being relaxed; easy-going; or not very strict
Example: The prevalent laxity toward marriage causes the divorce rate to rise.

Word: Liaise
Meaning: to work together to create a desired outcome
Example: To quickly settle the terms of the divorce; the husband and wife must liaise in an amiable manner.

Word: Liaison
Meaning: a person who helps organizations or groups to work together and provide information to each other
Example: As the liaison between the police department and the public schools in our city; my aunt coordinates officer visits to each of the schools.

Word: Libation 
Meaning: a beverage that contains some form of alcohol
Example: After a rough day at work; I usually stop by a bar for a relaxing libation.

Word: Libel
Meaning: 
Example: I told Troy that I would sue him for libel if he posted that embarrassing picture of us on his Facebook page.

Word: Liberal
Meaning: 1) willing to consider new things and ideas2) quite generous
Example: The political candidate’s liberal plans have enraged his conservative foes.

Word: Liberality
Meaning: possessing the characteristics of someone who is generous and gives freely
Example: J.K. Rowling shows great liberality to the poor and often donates several thousands of dollars to the charities each year.

Word: Liberate
Meaning: to free
Example: Because the dogs were experiencing maltreatment; the compassionate man decided to liberate his neighbor’s animals.

Word: Liberation
Meaning: the act of setting someone or something free
Example: Liberation of the country only came after the people were brave enough to fight for freedom.

Word: Libertine
Meaning: someone who ignores moral values
Example: My Uncle Charles is a libertine who lives with his four girlfriends.

Word: Liberty
Meaning: the freedom to do and act as one pleases
Example: Fighting for their liberty; the men could not wait to be free from the King of England.

Word: Libidinous
Meaning: reflecting desires of a lustful nature
Example: The libidinous man was constantly thinking of sex.

Word: Libretto
Meaning: the words or lyrics of an opera or musical play
Example: After many months of work; the libretto was finally completed and would be performed soon.

Word: License
Meaning: a permit that allows for someone to do something such as run a business or drive
Example: The boy has to take a written and practical test to earn his driver’s license.

Word: Licentious
Meaning: lacking moral discipline or ignoring legal restraint; especially in sexual conduct
Example: It is assumed that pagan festivals once involved many licentious activities; including a number of sexual games.

Word: Lichen
Meaning: leafy or mossy like fungi that grows on rocks; trees; and other natural elements and retains water
Example: Slimy green lichen grew on the rocks next to the creek.

Word: Licit
Meaning: lawful; not forbidden
Example: Although he did not agree with her choices; she was over 21 and he could not stop her licit drinking.

Word: Lie
Meaning: to recline or stretch out
Example: Every time I lie out on my beach towel for a long time; I end up with a sunburn.

Word: Liege
Meaning: an individual who is loyal to a person of rank; usually related to the Medieval time period 
Example: The liege was willing to give his life for his king.

Word: Lien
Meaning: a claim to the possession of another until a debt is settled
Example: The bank has a lien on the truck until the buyer fulfills his financial obligations.

Word: Lieu
Meaning: instead of something
Example: The company issues additional shares to shareholders in lieu of a cash dividend.

Word: Lieutenant
Meaning: an officer or deputy that acts as a substitute for a supervisor
Example: The police leiutenant was responsible for running the entire jail in his boss’s absence.

Word: Life
Meaning: the state between birth and death in which one is functioning
Example: The police tried to convince the man on the ledge that his life was worth living.

Word: Lifeless
Meaning: dead or appearing to be dead because of lack of motion
Example: Paramedics got to the child’s lifeless body just in time to restart his breathing.

Word: Lifetime
Meaning: the duration of the life of someone or something
Example: While reading my cousin’s obituary it mentioned she gave a lifetime of service to the nursing profession and her community.

Word: Ligature
Meaning: something used to tie or stitch something tightly
Example: Serving as a ligature; the nurse wound the cloth around the man’s wound.

Word: Light-colored
Meaning: light in shade or color
Example: Wear a white or light-colored t-shirt to the beach so that you don’t get hot.

Word: Light-hearted
Meaning: cheerful; happy-go-lucky
Example: Laura went to go see a light-hearted film to put her in a better mood.

Word: Light
Meaning: brightness from a natural means; the sun or a lamp that allows you to see something
Example: In case I arrive home after dark; I have my front room light set with a timer to turn on in the early evening so my dogs can see where they’re going.

Word: Ligneous
Meaning: woody; looking like wood.
Example: The ligneous chest of drawers looked like it was made of solid wood but was really particle board.

Word: Like clockwork
Meaning: an idiom used to describe something that happens very regularly and without problems
Example: Like clockwork; he cranks out a new book every year.

Word: Like
Meaning: similar to something else
Example: My new dog looks so much like my last puppy that it seems they could be friends.

Word: Likelihood
Meaning: possibility or good chance of something happening or being
Example: When the wind began to blow harder and the sky darkened; the likelihood of a storm approaching was relatively great.

Word: Liken
Meaning: to point out similarities or a resemblance to something else
Example: The disappointed travelers liken the horrible trip to going to a beach with no water.

Word: Likewise
Meaning: in a related way
Example: In time; the nightmares will go away; and likewise; I will no longer remember the accident.

Word: Lilliputian
Meaning: a very small person or thing
Example: Barely four and a half feet tall; the Lilliputian woman was the smallest one in her family.

Word: Lilt
Meaning: a spirited song or tune
Example: The small songstress sang an Irish lilt that raised the spirits of all the patrons in the bar.

Word: Limb
Meaning: an arm or leg of a person or animal
Example: The boy jumped off of the playground swing and broke his limb when he fell on his elbow.

Word: Limb
Meaning: a large branch on a tree
Example: A limb from a diseased oak tree fell on my car overnight.

Word: Limber
Meaning: flexible; agile
Example: The limber gymnast was able to do the backflip with ease.

Word: Limbo
Meaning: being in a lost or unknown position
Example: That has created a limbo in terms of how the military deals with gender-specific policies.

Word: Limerence
Meaning: the overwhelming need to be with or receive similar feelings from another person that manifests in physical trembling and pain when the other person is not around. Beyond simple infatuation or lust
Example: When Romeo first laid eyes on Juliet; he was struck with such limerence that his need for her became like a drug that could only be satisfied by returned feelings.

Word: Limitation
Meaning: a restriction or restraint that is used to control
Example: A limitation was placed on copies and now the workers can only copy a few papers a week.

Word: Limn
Meaning: to represent in painting or words
Example: The painter is known to limn pictures of his lovers on oil canvases.

Word: Limp
Meaning: lacking stiffness or firmness; as of substance; fiber; structure; or bodily frame
Example: Having forgotten to water it in weeks; the stalk of the plant was not limp and brittle.

Word: Limpid
Meaning: see-through; clear 
Example: Because the sky was not limpid; we could not see the stars.

Word: Line
Meaning: a row of persons or things
Example: The teachers will often have to settle the children down while they’re waiting in the lunch line.

Word: Lineage
Meaning: direct descent from a particular ancestor
Example: Our family was ecstatic to learn about our royal lineage and how we descend from kings and queens of antiquity.

Word: Lineal
Meaning: being in direct line of an ancestor
Example: Mary learned that her lineal family tree leads directly back to English royalty.

Word: Lineament
Meaning: an outline; or feature; or contour of a body or figure; especially the parts of the face 
Example: The young child traced the lineament of the statue.

Word: Linear
Meaning: arranged or along a straight line
Example: A linear path was created straight from the field’s first base to the second one.

Word:  Linger 
Meaning: to stay in a situation or place
Example: After school some students always linger around the building to talk to their friends.

Word: Lingo
Meaning: language peculiar to a particular group or region
Example: The rookie nurse was unsure how to respond to the doctor since she was unfamiliar with the medical lingo he was using in his question.

Word: Lingua Franca
Meaning: a language that is adopted as a common language between speakers that have different native languages
Example: The Lingua Franca of the country with two factions of speakers is an accepted mix of Spanish and Italian.

Word: Linguistic
Meaning: related to languages
Example: The linguistic instructor is here to teach us German; which is a difficult language to learn since it is different from Latin; which is the basis of more common languages like Spanish.

Word: Liniment
Meaning: a topical solution used to alleviate stiffness or pain
Example: Because of arthritic pain; I usually apply liniment to my legs every night.

Word: Link
Meaning: a connection between places; people; events; or ideas
Example: He has been a beat officer for the past three years and is a vital link between the community and police.

Word: Lionize
Meaning: to treat (a person) as if they were important; or a celebrity
Example: I hate when people lionize dead celebrities that were vilified during their lifetimes.

Word: Lipid
Meaning: a substance (such as wax; fat; or oil) that will dissolve in alcohol but not water
Example: Lipids are the building blocks of living cells and come in a variety of options (waxes; fats; or oils.)

Word: Liquefy
Meaning: to turn something into a liquid
Example: Using a food processer; the chef was able to liquefy the ingredients into a watery mixture.

Word: Liquid
Meaning: a phase of matter that flows and takes the shape of the container it fills
Example: Liquid spilled out of the top of the cup after the toddler dropped it.

Word: Liquidate 
Meaning: to pay off debts using assets
Example: The judge ordered the business owner to liquidate in order to pay his liabilities.

Word: Lisp
Meaning: when a person cannot pronounce “z” or “s” sounds properly
Example: Christian's classmates made fun of his lisp; but he could not help that he could not make “s” and “z” sounds.

Word: Lissome
Meaning: bending and moving about without any difficulty
Example: The lissome figure skater moved effortlessly on the ice.

Word: Listicle
Meaning: an article or piece of writing consisting of a series of items presented as a list
Example: The website puts out a new listicle every day listing which celebrities have been arrested or done stupid things.

Word: Listless
Meaning: without spirit or energy
Example: The illness made me so listless I rarely got out of bed.

Word: Lit
Meaning: exciting; fun
Example: Last night’s party was so lit that I’m still reliving the fun in my mind.

Word: Litany
Meaning: a lengthy record 
Example: The landlord was tired of listening to his tenant’s litany of complaints about the property.

Word: Literally
Meaning: in an exact manner
Example: After falling in the lake; I was literally smelling like a fish.

Word: Literate
Meaning: able to read and write
Example: The young toddler is literate; able to fully read and write at a very young age.

Word: Literature
Meaning: written works (such as poems; plays; and novels) that are considered to be very good and have lasting value
Example: Filled with literature; the library contained award-winning books from every genre.

Word: Lithe
Meaning: gracefully flexible; and often accompanied by being thin and long
Example: While Corinne has the lithe; agile body that would be perfect for gymnastics; she is too tall to manage some of the events.

Word: Lithological
Meaning: related to the study of rocks
Example: The geologist accepted a lithological position that put him in charge of screening the rocks found at the dig site.

Word: Lithosphere
Meaning: the solid part of the earth that includes the crust
Example: The geologists compared the solid crust of the lithosphere to other parts of the planet.

Word: Litigant
Meaning: someone engaged in a lawsuit
Example: A plaintiff is a litigant as is the defendant because they both are involved in a lawsuit.

Word: Litigate
Meaning: to participate in legal actions
Example: After not reaching an agreement; the two parties decided to go to court to litigate the settlement.

Word: Litigation
Meaning: the conduct of a lawsuit
Example: Charles entered into litigation when he opened a civil suit; attempting to hold his former employer liable for withholding wages.

Word: Litigious
Meaning: relating to litigation; inclined to engage in lawsuits
Example: Tom is a notoriously litigious individual who will sue anyone for anything.

Word: Litotes
Meaning: is a literary term for a figure of speech that uses negative terms to express a positive statement
Example: The Japanese woman used litotes to phrase her true thoughts in a nice way.

Word: Litter
Meaning: trash that is lying in an open place
Example: Loads of litter filled the polluted ocean; with the toxic trash making the fish sick.

Word: Littoral
Meaning: relating to a shore or coastal region.
Example: The littoral states of the Atlantic Ocean include South Carolina as well as New Jersey.

Word: Liturgy
Meaning: preset practices that are carried out during a religious service or event
Example: The priest has performed the baptismal liturgy over five hundred times.

Word: Livelihood
Meaning: the way in which an individual earns a living
Example: The singer’s livelihood depends upon his fans purchasing his music.

Word: Liveliness
Meaning: being energetic; active; and outgoing
Example: Playing and laughing; the children’s liveliness filled the whole room.

Word: Lively
Meaning: active; full of energy
Example: The lively children came barreling down the hallway.

Word: Livery
Meaning: a special color scheme used as a design for vehicles
Example: The livery of my favorite racer’s car is a full yellow paintjob that has two black racing stripes going down the middle.

Word: Livid
Meaning: furious
Example: Boris was livid with fury when he learned his wife’s killer was being released from prison.

Word: Living
Meaning: alive; Not dead
Example: Several different types of living creatures make their homes in the pond next door.

Word: Loathe
Meaning: to hate very much
Example: I loathe having to sit in the waiting room for hours.

Word: Loathsome
Meaning: extremely offensive
Example: Everyone avoided Jason because of his loathsome personality.

Word: Lobby
Meaning: the main entryway located inside a building
Example: Hotel guests must enter through the main entrance and check-in inside the lobby.

Word: Lobby
Meaning: an entrance hall to a company; hotel or theater
Example: Denise called me and said; “When you enter the lobby; sign in as a visitor with the receptionist before taking the elevators to the second floor for your training session.”

Word: Lobbyist
Meaning: an individual hired to convince a legislator to act in a specific manner
Example: As a lobbyist for a gun manufacturer; Harry tries to persuade legislators to vote against strict gun control bills.

Word: Locality
Meaning: the position or geographic site something is in
Example: The locality of North America is in the western hemisphere of the globe; more specifically in the upper quadrant.

Word: Locate
Meaning: designate the site or place of
Example: A New York business wants to expand and locate another factory in a city which has tax breaks and incentives reducing their startup cost.

Word: Lockdown
Meaning: a situation in which people are not allowed to enter or leave a building or area freely
Example: The prison inmates were placed on lockdown and weren’t allowed to leave their cells.

Word: Locomotion
Meaning: the action or force of traveling from location to location
Example: Traveling by airplane is the fastest means of locomotion.

Word: Locution
Meaning: a word or phrase commonly used in particular situations
Example: Although “LOL” is internet slang for “laughing out loud”; it has become an actual locution among the teenage girls in our school.

Word: Lodge
Meaning: to firmly fix something in a place
Example: Because the girl didn’t chew her food well enough; a piece of apple was able to lodge in her throat.

Word: Lodger
Meaning: a person who lives in a rented space of another person’s home
Example: Each lodger is responsible for paying his own rent and making sure his portion of the apartment is kept clean.

Word: Lofty
Meaning: great and worthy of praise
Example: The football players have set a lofty goal in their bid to win all their home games this year.

Word: Logic
Meaning: rational thinking not based on emotions
Example: Logic told the owner not buy the expensive car; but he went against his good judgement.

Word: Logical
Meaning: rational; or expected of an intelligent thought process
Example: If a stove is hot; the brain chooses the logical option and tells you not to touch it because it will hurt.

Word: Logistics
Meaning: the process of managing the flow of information; goods; and/or services to customers or clients
Example: It takes weeks to plan the logistics necessary for organizing a graduation ceremony for fifteen hundred students.

Word: Logomachy
Meaning: dispute over the meaning of words
Example: Not being able to decide on the correct definition for the word ‘inevitable’; the two engaged in a classic logomachy.

Word: Logophile
Meaning: a lover of words
Example: Shakespeare was such a logophile that he took the words he already loved and crafted them into new ones.

Word: Logorrhea
Meaning: excessive wordiness with minor or sometimes incoherent talkativeness
Example: Unlike our previous teacher whose logorrhea filled her lectures; this year’s teacher speaks so much more sparingly.

Word: Loiter 
Meaning: to stick around without any real purpose
Example: If you loiter in the parking lot for hours; the police will ask you to leave the premises.

Word: Loll 
Meaning: to act in a leisurely manner
Example: If I was rich; I could loll on the couch instead of going to work each day.

Word: Lollapalooza
Meaning: a person or thing that is exceptionally striking or impressive
Example: The exceptional music performance was a lollapalooza that stood out amongst all of the other acts.

Word: Loneliness
Meaning: an emotion or feeling of solitude; in which one laments a lack of company
Example: His day is marked by loneliness; without the company of any friends or family to make him smile or laugh.

Word: Lonesome
Meaning: lonely because of lack of companionship
Example: The monk claimed to never feel lonesome and swore he enjoyed living in solitude.

Word: Long Overdue
Meaning: referring to something that should to have happened a long time ago
Example: The payment for our insurance is long overdue; and we are going to have to pay an extra fine since we are half a month late.

Word: Long overdue
Meaning: something that should have happened much earlier but hasn’t
Example: Since the parents worked every week for years without taking a break; their family vacation was long overdue.

Word: Long shot
Meaning: a gamble or risk that isn’t likely to pay off
Example: Getting into the exclusive college is a long shot; but I’ve decided to take the risk and apply anyway.

Word: Long-winded
Meaning: lengthy and word in speech
Example: The student’s long-winded response was much more lengthy than the client required.

Word: Long
Meaning: measuring a great distance in length
Example: The snake was very long; and its body stretched all the way across the sidewalk.

Word: Longevity
Meaning: the duration of time that something or someone persists
Example: The politician’s longevity in office will be determined by voter popularity.

Word: Longing
Meaning: desperately wanting something
Example: Longing for a cheeseburger; the craving wouldn’t subside until I made a midnight trip to McDonalds.

Word: Longitude
Meaning: angular distance measured west or east of the prime meridian
Example: The vertical lines that are found on the map are known as the longitude; while the lateral lines are referred to as the latitude.

Word: Longitudinal
Meaning: running lengthwise
Example: The longitudinal placement of the rug spread from east to west.

Word: Loom
Meaning: to impend; to threaten or hang over
Example: When the storm begins to loom over the horizon; we will head back to the car.

Word: Loophole
Meaning: a mistake or vagueness in a regulation or law that allow all or part of it to be avoided or changed
Example: Since the contract did not include the deadline for the work to be completed; the handyman found a loophole in the contract so he couldn’t be taken to court.

Word: Loopy
Meaning: idiotic; crazy or drunk
Example: Sleep deprivation will have you feeling loopy.

Word: Loose
Meaning: not firmly or tightly in place
Example: My pants were a bit loose around my waist; so I needed to find a belt to hold them up before I left the house.

Word: Loot
Meaning: stolen goods or money
Example: While raiding the village; the soldiers helped themselves to any loot that they could find.

Word: Lop
Meaning: to cut something off
Example: The landscaper used a hedge trimmer to lop down the grass several inches.

Word: Lope
Meaning: to take a longer footstep while running or walking
Example: Sprinters usually will lope in their lanes in order to ensure victory at the finish line of the race.

Word: Lopsided
Meaning: uneven or unbalanced
Example: Not realizing the table was lopsided; the patron placed his drink on it and water went everywhere!

Word: Loquacious
Meaning: a person that talks a lot; talkative
Example: After drinking four beers; my normally quiet wife becomes quite loquacious.

Word: Loquacity
Meaning: the act of talking a lot
Example: All I had to do was listen for the loquacity of a person on their cell phone to know that it was a teenager.

Word: Lord
Meaning: a ruler who has power or authority over others
Example: The lord was in charge of ruling everyone in his district and used his power to his advantage.

Word: Lore
Meaning: information and wisdom gained through tradition
Example: Lore was passed around the campfire in the form of old folktales.

Word: Lorn
Meaning: feeling isolated and desolate
Example: Once all her children left for college; the divorced mother felt lorn living in a big empty house.

Word: Lorry
Meaning: a large open vehicle used for hauling supplies or soldiers
Example: After the major battle; a lorry filled with medical equipment traveled to the army hospital to restock its inventory.

Word: Lose
Meaning: no longer have someone
Example: It is far more tragic for parents to lose a child from a sudden death as it leaves them with many unsaid things and feelings of regret.

Word: Lose
Meaning: to misplace or get rid of something
Example: I need a bright colored key chain since I lose my car keys at least once a week.

Word: Loss
Meaning: failure to win
Example: The basketball team was discouraged by their loss and vowed to practice more often before the next game.

Word: Lost
Meaning: in an unknown location; unable to be found
Example: When Karen lost her dog; she searched the area; called the shelter and placed flyers everywhere to improve the chances her pet would be returned.

Word: Lothario
Meaning: one who lures women by pretending to fall in love with them
Example: Lyle knew that his past reputation as a lothario would make it hard for him to prove his feelings to his girlfriend.

Word: Louche
Meaning: dishonest and crooked
Example: Suspicious of his ways; Kevin’s father never felt like he could trust his louche son due to his sordid past.

Word: Loud
Meaning: a deafening sound
Example: The music from the car passing by my house was so loud it woke up my infant child from her nap.

Word: Lounge
Meaning: relax
Example: After complete exhaustion; Henry decided to lounge on the sofa for a few hours.

Word: Louse
Meaning: an immobile insect that extracts blood from humans or animals
Example: Once the child began to scratch her head; a louse was found attached to a follicle of her hair.

Word: Lousy
Meaning: something that is so terrible it’s shocking
Example: The pizza was so incredibly lousy that she wouldn’t even give it to her worst enemy.

Word: Lout
Meaning: an uncooperative and impolite male
Example: When the neighbors witnessed his cruelty to animals; they informed the police of the actions of the lout.

Word: Love
Meaning: to like or enjoy
Example: The Dean children love to bake and enjoy serving treats to family and friends.

Word: Love
Meaning: a deep feeling of fondness or affection
Example: The love Ben felt for his wife showed in the way her cared for her while she was sick.

Word: Loveable
Meaning: adorable; attractive
Example: The lovable puppy looked up at his owner with his cute button eyes.

Word: Loveliness
Meaning: the characteristic of being lovely or otherwise desirable
Example: The sunset at dusk is truly lovely; a spectacle that no one should miss out on if they want to appreciate the beauty of nature.

Word: Lovely
Meaning: beautiful; charming 
Example: Miranda’s lovely emerald dress looked beautiful against her fair skin.

Word: Low
Meaning: small in height
Example: In the newspaper; I read about another accident when a trailer truck tried to squeeze under a low clearance bridge.

Word: Lowdown
Meaning: cruel and mean
Example: Leroy was a lowdown; dirty rascal who loved to trick elderly women into giving him all of their cash.

Word: Lowlife
Meaning: a criminal or other person with no morals or character
Example: The lowlife squatter lives in other people’s vacant homes and destroys them when he leaves.

Word: Loyal
Meaning: trusted and dependable
Example: A man’s most loyal companion is his dog because it will always welcome its owner back when the owner takes a vacation.

Word: Loyalist
Meaning: someone who supports their ruler or government; especially during a revolution
Example: John is a tea party loyalist who is very outspoken about the evils of the Democratic party in the United States.

Word: Loyalty
Meaning: the quality of being faithful and devoted; never wavering from allegiance
Example: Craving loyalty from everyone in his kingdom; the paranoid king would kill anyone he suspected to be an enemy spy.

Word: Lubricant
Meaning: oil applied to something to reduce friction
Example: Applying excessive amounts of lubricant to the floor caused many customers to slip.

Word: Lubricate
Meaning: to apply oil to a surface in order to reduce friction
Example: Finding a product to lubricate the door was the only way to stop the annoying squeaking.

Word: Lubricious
Meaning: having an oily and smooth quality
Example: The other sun-bathers admired the woman’s gleaming and lubricious skin.

Word: Lucent
Meaning: Emitting light; shining
Example: Because it was overcast; I could not see the lucent moon in the sky.

Word: Lucid
Meaning: easy to understand or thinking clearly
Example: Because the medicine made Lisa drowsy; she was not very lucid.

Word: Lucidity
Meaning: the capability to view things in a logical way
Example: The colonel’s lucidity allowed him to quickly plan a strategy of attack.

Word: Luck
Meaning: a force that allows good things to happen to you by chance and not as a result of one’s own effort
Example: The lottery winner gained his fortune strictly by luck since he didn’t even pick his ticket numbers.

Word: Lucky
Meaning: being fortunate or bringing fortune to others by chance
Example: The basketball player was convinced that his lucky socks were the reason his team won every game they played.

Word: Lucrative
Meaning: producing wealth; profitable
Example: The wealthy businessman was constantly on the lookout for lucrative ventures that would help him become even wealthier.

Word: Lucre
Meaning: money or profit gained illegally or immorally
Example: Hiding the lucre in many different accounts; the mobsters kept a watchful eye on their funds.

Word: Lucubration
Meaning: the process of applying oil or a similar substance to make something run more smoothly
Example: The farmer applied oil to the tractor gears and explained that proper lubrication is required to keep his machine running.

Word: Ludicrous
Meaning: something viewed as humorous because of its ridiculousness
Example: The ludicrous movie is about a dog that becomes the president of a country.

Word: Luggage
Meaning: suitcases or other bags that are used to pack personal items for travel; especially clothing
Example: While packing their luggage for vacation; the couple made sure to include several swimsuits and sunblock.

Word: Lugubrious
Meaning: looking or sounding sad and gloomy
Example: In his first novel; the mysterious postman is the perfect example of a lugubrious character.

Word: Lukewarm
Meaning: moderately warm; tepid
Example: Disappointed by his lukewarm chicken wings; the diner requested hot ones from the kitchen.

Word: Lull
Meaning: to put to sleep; soothe; or quiet
Example: Soft and cool; the breeze succeeded in its task to lull the man to sleep.

Word: Lumber
Meaning: raw cut timber beams
Example: Environmentalists protested the lumberjacks’ actions because they were chopping down all the trees for their lumber.

Word: Luminary
Meaning: a person who influences or motivates other people
Example: Because Dr. Swanson is a luminary in the medical profession; he recently had a surgical procedure named after him.

Word: Luminous
Meaning: producing or seeming to produce light 
Example: The movie editor used the computer program to give the actress the luminous appearance of an angel.

Word: Lummox
Meaning: someone who is clumsy or regarded as unintelligent
Example: I consider my baby brother a lummox; since he is constantly tripping over nothing and knocking things over.

Word: Lump
Meaning: a swelling under the skin; often caused by infection or disease
Example: A lump on the patient’s neck meant that his cancer may have returned.

Word: Lunacy
Meaning: insanity; stupid or foolish behavior
Example: People on several lower class talk shows exhibit behavior similar to lunacy when they yell; cuss; and fight each other over silly problems.

Word: Lunar
Meaning: pertaining to the moon
Example: Our class was studying the lunar landing of 1969.

Word: Lunatic
Meaning: someone afflicted with lunacy; a crazy person
Example: The man was considered a lunatic because he was talking to a tree as though it were a real person.

Word: Luncheon
Meaning: a planned proper function for business or pleasure involving eating 
Example: Since the luncheon was cancelled; I was saddened that I would not get to visit with my friends and I would have to fix a sandwich at home.

Word: Lunge
Meaning: to make a sudden forward body motion towards someone or something
Example: While visiting my uncle in Florida; he took me to a canal and we watched an alligator lunge at a fish capturing it and started eating it before our eyes.

Word: Lurch 
Meaning: to move around in a sneaky manner
Example: The cat will lurch around the corner to spy on the sleeping dog.

Word: Lure
Meaning: to entice someone or animal with something to persuade them to go somewhere
Example: Ben had to lure the stray dog from the busy road to his yard by offering it a piece of meat until he could find the owner.

Word: Lure
Meaning: to tempt a person or an animal into going somewhere else
Example: The hunter used apples to lure the deer out into the clearing.

Word: Lurid
Meaning: full of unpleasant details that are meant to shock or interest people
Example: The film had an R-rating because of its lurid depiction of the couple’s sexual encounter.

Word: Lurk
Meaning: to hide from sight until the optimal moment in order to attack
Example: Hungry lions lurk in the tall grass and wait for unsuspecting gazelles to cross their path.

Word: Luscious
Meaning: extremely appealing in smell; taste; or appearance
Example: I wanted to take a bite of the luscious apple.

Word: Lush
Meaning: growing in abundance 
Example: Vines and other swinging plants covered the lush rainforest.

Word: Lust
Meaning: a fierce desire; often sexual in nature
Example: Janet’s lust for chocolate has caused her to become quite chubby.

Word: Luster
Meaning: shine; polish or sparkle
Example: The luster of the holiday lights shone brightly on the freshly fallen snow.

Word: Lusterless
Meaning: dull; not shiny
Example: After taking the lusterless ring to the jewelry shop; the once dull piece was now bright and shiny.

Word: Lustrous
Meaning: having a glow or radiant look
Example: After a long overdue visit to the hairdresser; my hair is a lustrous auburn color once again.

Word: Luxuriant
Meaning: plentiful in detail or growth
Example: In the spring months; thousands of tourists visit the luxuriant gardens near the art museum.

Word: Luxuriate
Meaning: to take pleasure in something
Example: After a long day; all Amber wanted to do was luxuriate in a soothing bubble bath.

Word: Luxurious
Meaning: a very costly sophisticated style
Example: While traveling abroad with a friend; we were awestruck of the luxurious hotel room we chose.

Word: Luxury
Meaning: a state of great comfort; especially when provided by expensive and beautiful things
Example: Living a life of luxury; the queen had people to wait on her hand and foot.

Word: Lynched
Meaning: to kill by hanging someone without a judicial trial
Example: There was a time in history when crowds would form to watch someone lynched.

Word: Lyric
Meaning: a line of a song or poem
Example: Each lyric of the song must be memorized before the singer takes the stage.

Word: Macabre
Meaning: gruesome; shocking; disturbing; terrifying
Example: Since even the scariest of horror movies only made her laugh; Sofia supposed that she had a macabre sense of humor.

Word: Machiavellian
Meaning: noted by devious behavior; especially when benefitting one’s career or business goals
Example: My supervisor is very sneaky and has been known to exhibit Machiavellian behavior in order to move up in the company.

Word: Machination
Meaning: a scheme that is usually created for bad reasons
Example: After being caught running a machination against his political rival; the ruthless candidate lost the election.

Word: Machismo
Meaning: exaggerated masculine pride
Example: A machismo makeover was just what the man needed to increase his masculinity.

Word: Macrocosm
Meaning: a large unit or system that contains many smaller bodies
Example: The global company was a macrocosm headquartered in New York City with smaller entities all over the globe.

Word: Macroeconomics
Meaning: a division in economics which focuses on the larger aspects of economics of money comparing it to the entire nation or world
Example: When the state’s government analyzes their budget; they use macroeconomics to determine how their budget will influence the country’s budget.

Word: Macroscopic
Meaning: able to be seen with the eye
Example: If the item to be examined is macroscopic; then a scientist won't need a microscope to view it.

Word: Mad
Meaning: angry or furious
Example: My mother was so mad that she threw a chair across the room in a fit of rage that was completely unrivaled.

Word: Maelstrom
Meaning: a situation in which there is great confusion; violence; and destruction; or a very powerful whirlpool
Example: Following the divorce; Judy was beset by such a maelstrom of emotions that she decided to talk to a counselor.

Word: Maestro
Meaning: a master of music who is skilled in playing or conducting
Example: Leading the orchestra through their set; the maestro amazed the crowd with his conducting.

Word: Magic
Meaning: the ability to persuade people using illusion and trickery
Example: “The only way the man could have made that bird disappear;” said the amazed young boy as he watched the street performer; “is through magic.”

Word: Magisterial
Meaning: overbearing and domineering
Example: When my magisterial mother-in-law came over to our house; she insisted that I raise my children exactly how she wanted me to.

Word: Magistrate
Meaning: a judge that hears and rules on minor offenses
Example: As a local magistrate; the judge’s power over state issues was limited.

Word: Magma
Meaning: rock that is hot and in a liquid form beneath the Earth’s surface
Example: The magma that comes from the ground during a volcanic eruption is referred to as lava.

Word: Magna Carta
Meaning: a formal document signed by King John in 1215 that stated the English king had to follow the laws of the land and gave individuals the rights to make their own decisions
Example: By signing the Magna Carta; King John of England gave the individual citizens more rights than they had ever had before.

Word: Magnanimous
Meaning: very generous or forgiving; unselfish
Example:  Despite the slurs made against him by his opponent; the boxer was magnanimous enough to praise his competitor.

Word: Magnate
Meaning: a wealthy and influential business person
Example: Due to his status as a political magnate; many people were eager to vote for him in the next election.

Word: Magnetic
Meaning: attractive; alluring
Example: With a magnetic smile; the singer captivated the crowd with his crooning.

Word: Magnificent
Meaning: superb or outstanding
Example: With a beautiful bride; delicious cake and fun reception; the guests commented about what a magnificent wedding this was.

Word: Magnify
Meaning: to boost or enhance something; making it appear larger
Example: My sister is an exaggerator who likes to magnify even the smallest symptoms when she is sick.

Word: Magniloquence
Meaning: use of grand or wordy speech to say something simple
Example: The orator’s display of magniloquence confused the listeners.

Word: Magniloquent
Meaning: using high-sounding; boastful language
Example: He spoke in a magniloquent manner; drawing attention to himself.

Word: Magnitude 
Meaning: the significance or size of something
Example: Because of the magnitude of the project; I need to hire some additional workers.

Word: Magnum opus
Meaning: the single greatest work of an artist or writer
Example: The author had written many books but didn’t release his magnum opus; Charlotte’s Web; until 1952.

Word: Maid
Meaning: a domestic servant who cleans and waits on others
Example: The maid spent most of her day ironing clothes and folding laundry for her mistress.

Word: Maim
Meaning: to injure to the point that function is lost in a body part or region
Example: The evil dictator seemed to take delight in using a sword to maim and murder the people who opposed him.

Word: Main
Meaning: the key part or most important part of something
Example: My main job at work is to answer phone calls from customers with questions.

Word: Mainland
Meaning: the main landmass of a country or continent
Example: After a wonderful seven day vacation in Hawaii; it was time to go back to the mainland of California.

Word: Mainstay
Meaning: a thing that something or someone depends on
Example: Coupons are a mainstay for the couple since they depend on them to reduce their grocery bill every week.

Word: Mainstream
Meaning: having the most influential appeal to something accepted by most
Example: In short; modern mainstream media pertaining to politics is in a state of total confusion.

Word: Mainstream
Meaning: considered ordinary or usual by most people
Example: The song is popular with pop fans who listen to mainstream music.

Word: Maintain
Meaning: to keep something in its current state
Example: In order to maintain my grades at school; I must study hard and complete all of my homework to ensure they stay A’s.

Word: Maintain
Meaning: to keep something in its current condition or state
Example: It is difficult to maintain my weight when my diet consists of donuts and Chinese takeout.

Word: Maintenance
Meaning: work performed on a system in order to keep it operating as intended
Example: Because the sewer system is such an important part of the city’s infrastructure; we have to conduct maintenance on it every few weeks to make sure everything is running properly.

Word: Majestic
Meaning: displaying impressive grandeur
Example: The majestic movie theater was so glamorous it was converted into a film museum.

Word: Major
Meaning: main and key
Example: While the teacher was harshly disciplining the class; she was able to get her major point across to the students about keeping their hands and feet to themselves.

Word: Majority rule
Meaning: the idea that whatever has the higher vote or favor wins
Example: Many talent shows are decided by a majority rule in which the person who gets the most votes wins.

Word: Majority
Meaning: the greater percentage of the whole
Example: Winners of talent shows like American Idol are decided by a majority vote.

Word: Make-believe
Meaning: indulge pretense or invent a story or excuse
Example: Jacob likes to play make-believe he’s Superman by jumping off a chair onto his bed pretending he can fly.

Word: Make-up
Meaning: apply various types of cosmetics usually to face to enhance ones look
Example: Adam hates it when it takes me thirty minutes to curl my hair and apply all of my make-up before we can leave the house.

Word: Make
Meaning: to bring into being; create; build; produce; etc.
Example: “Would you like me to make you some breakfast?”

Word: Makebate
Meaning: a person who causes arguments or starts up trouble
Example: Because she likes to spread rumors; the office makebate is constantly stirring up strife at work.

Word: Makeshift
Meaning: an impermanent substitute
Example: During the storm; we used the large tree branches as a makeshift shelter.

Word: Maladjusted
Meaning: not able to cope with the demands of one’s life
Example: After being raised by apes; the young lord was maladjusted to the duties expected of him by society.

Word: Maladroit
Meaning: awkward and somewhat incompetent
Example: The nervous boy was maladroit and stuttered over his words as he invited the girl to the dance.

Word: Malady
Meaning: an illness
Example: Because she is a hypochondriac; my sister has one malady after another.

Word: Malaise
Meaning: a feeling of general bodily discomfort; fatigue or unpleasantness
Example: Jason knew he was getting ill because of the malaise he had been experiencing for a few days.

Word: Malapropism
Meaning: a comical misuse of a word that resembles another term in sound
Example: In class; everyone laughed at Bill’s malapropism when he complained about electrical votes instead of electoral votes.

Word: Malapropos
Meaning: out of place; inappropriate
Example: Her funny remarks seemed malapropos at her sister’s funeral.

Word: Malaria
Meaning: a disease spread by mosquito
Example: After my trip; I experienced symptoms that prompted me to get tested for malaria.

Word: Malarkey
Meaning: something that is considered to be absurd or junk
Example: Everyone knew that her opinion was complete malarkey since she could not support it with any evidence whatsoever.

Word: Malcontent
Meaning: an individual who is unruly and hardly ever satisfied 
Example: The woman was such a malcontent that she complained about every dish served to her in the five-star restaurant.

Word: Malediction
Meaning: an evil speech or curse upon someone or something
Example: The witch’s malediction made the young princess fall into a deep sleep.

Word: Malefactor
Meaning: one who does evil
Example: For several years; the detective pursued the malefactor who had brutally killed the two children.

Word: Maleficent
Meaning: harmful or evil in intent or effect
Example: The preacher said that Satan is a maleficent force that urges men to sin.

Word: Malevolent
Meaning: wishing harm to others; malicious
Example: How malevolent of you to wish that I was dead!

Word: Malfeasance
Meaning: the performance of an illegal deed; generally by someone in the public trust
Example: When the election results are tallied; surely the people will have voted out the mayor who is currently being investigated for malfeasance.

Word: Malice
Meaning: desire to cause pain; injury; or distress to another
Example: John’s malice towards his ex-wife led him to vandalize her car.

Word: Malicious 
Meaning: intentionally harmful
Example: Danielle was hurt by malicious comments made about her on Facebook.

Word: Malign
Meaning: to say unpleasant things about someone or something; usually unfairly
Example: By spreading the cruel rumor; my sister hoped to malign her ex-boyfriend.

Word: Malignant
Meaning: causing an extremely serious; possibly even fatal; issue
Example: Crystal cried when she learned the tumor was malignant.

Word: Malignity
Meaning: an occurrence of hateful behavior or temperament
Example: Spitting on someone is one of the worst types of malignity a person can inflict upon another person.

Word: Malinger
Meaning: to pretend to be sick or injured in order to avoid doing work
Example: When it is time to do work around the house; Henry will offer malinger and go to his room to rest.

Word: Mall
Meaning: a shopping center with lots of individual stores house in one building
Example: A new department store is coming to the mall and will be housed between the shoe store and gift shop.

Word: Malleable
Meaning: capable of being easily changed or influenced
Example: When my uncle drinks a great deal; he is always quite malleable to suggestions.

Word: Mallet
Meaning: a hammer with a typically wooden head that is used for hitting a chisel
Example: With a mallet and a chisel; a skilled sculptor can turn a block of stone into a fantastic statue worthy of being in a museum.

Word: Malnourished
Meaning: suffering from a deficiency of proper nourishment 
Example: Because the homeless man was malnourished; I gave him money for a decent meal.

Word: Malnutrition
Meaning: a lack of adequate nourishment (from not eating enough food or not eating enough healthy food)
Example: Her eyes were sunken in from malnutrition.

Word: Malodorous 
Meaning: having an unpleasant fragrance
Example: The malodorous odor reminds me of rotten eggs.

Word: Malpractice
Meaning: a practice or act that is harmful or negligent
Example: The doctor’s malpractice insurance will handle the court costs associated with the lawsuit filed by his patient.

Word: Maltreat
Meaning: to treat someone or something cruelly or violently
Example: The child was in a lot of trouble because of the way he would maltreat our dog; kicking him whenever he was angry.

Word: Mammoth
Meaning: very large
Example: We watched as the mammoth whale started doing backflips near our boat; causing waves to splash up against us.

Word: Manacle
Meaning: an item that functions as a control or restraint
Example: The manacle will keep the dog from leaving the front yard.

Word: Manage
Meaning: to be in charge of something
Example: A new person was hired to manage the newsstand and make sure sales increase.

Word: Manageable 
Meaning: able to be controlled; easy
Example: As long as my crazy uncle took his sedatives; he was manageable and behaved properly.

Word: Management
Meaning: the control and organization of something
Example: Classroom management is an important part of teaching students since real learning can’t take place in an unruly classroom.

Word: Mandamus
Meaning: a legal order from a higher court to a lower court to perform a required task
Example: In order to fix the problems of justice; a mandamus was required by the Supreme Court to have the State Court execute a state of emergency.

Word: Mandate
Meaning: permission to do something 
Example: The marshal was given a mandate to use all resources to bring in the escaped prisoner.

Word: Mandatory
Meaning: something that is absolutely required and must be done
Example: There is a mandatory meeting that we all must attend as faculty members; so we can have no excuse for being absent.

Word: Mane
Meaning: long and thick hair associated with the head of a mammal
Example: After not cutting his mane for forty years; the man had hair that fell to his knees.

Word: Maneuver 
Meaning: to steer something with a purpose
Example: It took three farmhands to maneuver the distraught cow back into the pen.

Word: Mangle
Meaning: to make unrecognizable through violent acts of cutting; slashing; or crushing
Example: The lion's razor-sharp claws mangle the terrified gazelle as he feeds.

Word: Mania
Meaning: excessive desire; excitement; or enthusiasm
Example: Greg’s sports mania is so ridiculous that he can watch the same game hundreds of times without getting bored.

Word: Maniacal 
Meaning: behavior of a crazed person; insane
Example: The hospital staff put the maniacal patient in a straitjacket so she would not hurt herself.

Word: Manic
Meaning: wildly erratic or frenzied in behavior
Example: During her manic state; the woman with bipolar disorder spent lots of money and acted unpredictably.

Word: Manicure
Meaning: treatment for the hands that involves softening the skin and making the nails look better
Example: The full manicure treatment is more expensive because it includes nail cutting and painting.

Word: Manifest Destiny
Meaning: an action or event that is believed that it will definitely take place
Example: When the powerful United States wanted to take over the land in Oklahoma; it was a manifest destiny that the Native Americans would be forced off their land within a few months.

Word: Manifest
Meaning: easy to understand or recognize; obvious 
Example: The love on Amy’s face was manifest and obvious to everyone.

Word:  Manifesto 
Meaning: a public statement reflecting the philosophy of a person or group
Example: In his manifesto; the presidential candidate described himself as the only person who could make the country great again.

Word: Manifold 
Meaning: numerous and diverse
Example: Our plumbing repair bill is huge because the plumber has found manifold problems in the pipes.

Word: Manikin
Meaning: a model of the human body; used for teaching medical or art students
Example: Because the science manikin is so realistic; it has pupils that react to light and eyelids that blink.

Word: Manipulate 
Meaning: to regulate or control something or someone
Example: The beautiful young woman found it easy to manipulate the wealthy older man.

Word: Mankind
Meaning: the human race
Example: Pollution prevention is good for mankind because the human race can’t continue without fresh air.

Word: Manner
Meaning: the way in which something is done
Example: The toddler acted in a horrible manner; screaming and throwing a fit in the middle of dinner.

Word: Mannerism
Meaning: a certain way someone speaks; acts or behaves
Example: Even though I couldn’t see the girl standing away from me; I knew it was Samantha due to her mannerism of talking.

Word: Manor
Meaning: the big house on a large estate
Example: The lord’s manor is a grand house that sits on a thirty-acre estate.

Word: Mansion
Meaning: a large; impressive house; most often owned by someone wealthy
Example: Because he has millions of dollars at his disposal; the man decided to buy a massive mansion to showcase all of his wealth.

Word: Mansplain
Meaning: to explain something that you don’t understand completely (from man to woman) in a way that is considered patronizing
Example: During meetings; my male coworkers are more likely to dominate the conversation and condescendingly mansplain things to the women.

Word: Mantic
Meaning: a person who can tell or see the future
Example: After looking into his crystal ball; the mantic was able to tell the woman who she was going to marry.

Word: Manticore
Meaning: a mythical creature that was said to have a scorpion’s sting but the body of a lion and head of a man
Example: According to the myth; the manticore’s sting is as strong as a scorpion while his body is that of a lion.

Word: Mantle
Meaning: the obligations or authority associated with an individual’s duties; title; or personal beliefs
Example: Overwhelmed by the stress that came with the mantle of his office; the prime minister resigned from his position.

Word: Mantra 
Meaning: a phrase or term repeated often that usually echoes an individual’s basic principles
Example: As physicians we observe the mantra of “not doing any harm.”

Word: Manual
Meaning: a booklet that instructs someone on how to do something or the usage of something
Example: Tom was able to troubleshoot why our newly purchased television wouldn’t work by reading the manual.

Word: Manual
Meaning: a book or booklet that gives instructions or explains how something works
Example: My wife’s new vehicle came with a manual that explained all of its features.

Word: Manufacture
Meaning: to create items on a massive scale
Example: The company is relocating production to Asia because it is cheaper to manufacture products overseas.

Word: Manumission
Meaning: release from slavery; freedom
Example: When manumission happened on the plantation; all the slaves were freed.

Word: Manuscript
Meaning: text that has been typed or handwritten as part of the preparation for publication
Example: After I read the first ten pages of Cameron’s manuscript; I couldn’t wait to finish the rest of the screenplay.

Word: Mar
Meaning: to ruin or spoil
Example: You will mar the cake if you keep putting your fingers in the icing.

Word: Marauder
Meaning: an individual who is constantly looking for something to steal
Example: The marauder uses his quick hands to rob people on public buses.

Word: Marauding
Meaning: moving from one location to another in order to commit crimes against society
Example: The marauding thieves never stay more than a few nights in a city.

Word: Marble
Meaning: a type of lined rock that is very hard and can be polished to become smooth and polished
Example: Polished marble was used for the kitchen counters; but a different type of stone was used for the flooring.

Word: Margin
Meaning: the edge or border of something
Example: Students should not write outside the margin but instead stay inside the lines.

Word: Marginal
Meaning: minor; not of consequence
Example: I was not upset by the marginal price increase.

Word: Marginate
Meaning: having a distinct border; or ‘margin'
Example: Every country is marginate in nature; having a distinct border that determines how much territory that country controls.

Word: Marine
Meaning: found in or produced by the ocean
Example: The marine animals are dying because of trash and pollution being dumped into the ocean.

Word: Marine
Meaning: a member of a military force trained for service at sea
Example: Cathy was so excited to hear that her nephew Harry is officially a Marine after he recently graduated from boot camp.

Word: Maritime
Meaning: related to the sea or sailing
Example: After recently purchasing a boat; they decided to embark on a maritime adventure.

Word: Marketplace
Meaning: an place where people sell things to the public
Example: Vendors are selling rugs; pottery; and other wares in the open marketplace.

Word: Maroon
Meaning: a dark reddish-tan color
Example: Since the young man knew nothing about fashion; he wore his maroon shirt with a lighter red pair of pants.

Word: Marquee
Meaning: a structure placed over the entrance to a hotel or theatre; stating either the name of the establishment or the play or movie and the artists appearing at that venue
Example: The old theater in town had a marquee sign that still read; “Now Showing: The Wizard of Oz”.

Word: Marred
Meaning: spoiled or damaged
Example: The rowdy college boys marred the hotel room.

Word: Marriage
Meaning: the legally recognized joining of spouses
Example: After twenty years of marriage; the once happy couple is now divorcing.

Word: Marrow
Meaning: the center soft part of the bone that produces blood cells
Example: When the bone broke; it exposed the marrow to the germs which might have led to an infection.

Word: Marsh
Meaning: an area of low-lying land that is floods often and sometimes remains waterlogged
Example: The marsh and other wetlands in the area are protected by land conservation laws.

Word: Martial 
Meaning: associated with a military way of life
Example: Since my father brings his job as a colonel home; he runs our family in a martial way by assigning everyone a rank and duties.

Word: Martinet
Meaning: an individual who emphasizes discipline
Example: As a colonel in the army; John is a martinet who believes discipline is the only path to success.

Word: Martyr
Meaning: one who surrenders something of tremendous value for a cause
Example: The gay man became a martyr when he lost his job after refusing to hide his sexual preference.

Word: Marvel
Meaning: something or someone that triggers amazement
Example: Many scientists view the three-year-old boy with the extremely high IQ as a marvel.

Word: Marvelous
Meaning: something showing amazing talent or skill and that often inspires awe
Example: The actress was so marvelous at her role that she not only won an Academy Award but brought everyone in the audience to tears with her performance.

Word: Marxism
Meaning: a social and political theory that is the opposite of capitalism and argues that production and all of the means of public ownership should lie in the hands of the workers
Example: The socialist theory of Marxism says that people are grouped into categories based on their relationship to how things are made.

Word: Masculine
Meaning: manly or seen as male in nature
Example: It is considered masculine to be big and strong; though that notion is probably from an older era where men were usually warriors of some sort.

Word: Masochist
Meaning: an individual who gets pleasure from suffering
Example:  Sarah does not like enduring or observing pain so she is definitely not a masochist.

Word: Masquerade
Meaning: to assume a false identity 
Example: The con man decided to masquerade as a missionary to bilk the church out of its savings.

Word: Mass
Meaning: a heap or pile
Example: A mass of garbage continued to pile up outside of the smelly dumpster.

Word: Massacre
Meaning: killing of many people
Example: The French massacre was particular bloody; with over one hundred lives lost.

Word: Massive
Meaning: large and heavy
Example: As a college freshman; I was surprised to be given a massive textbook which I could not carry alone.

Word: Mast
Meaning: a tall post attached to a ship that holds sails
Example: The mast had a sail attached and was used to guide the boat.

Word: Mastermind
Meaning: a brilliant thinker who uses one's intellect to put together plans or projects
Example: Though Joe was the mastermind behind the bridge’s design; his boss took all the credit for the architect’s magnificent blueprints.

Word: Masterpiece
Meaning: an outstanding work or skill
Example: Staring at the blank canvas; the artist pondered how he could turn this slate into a world-renowned masterpiece.

Word: Mastery
Meaning: complete control or superiority over something else
Example: Man’s mastery over nature in our world allows us to achieve many things; but even so we can never outmatch nature’s raw power.

Word: Masticate
Meaning: to chomp with teeth; chew
Example: My mother told me to never talk while I masticate my food.

Word: Match
Meaning: a contest in which people or teams compete against one another
Example: During the close match; the boxing champ made a mistake and was knocked out by his opponent.

Word: Mate
Meaning: each of a pair of items
Example: Erica became upset when she couldn’t find the other mate to her favorite pair of socks.

Word: Material
Meaning: matter or substance of which something can be made
Example: Because the dress is made from an expensive material; the shop owner will sell it for a higher price.

Word: Materialism
Meaning: constant concern over material possessions and wealth
Example: Obviously; the shopper’s belief in materialism led her to buy far more items than she could afford.

Word: Materialize
Meaning: to become real or visible
Example: If you want to make your dreams materialize; you must take steps to make them real.

Word: Maternal
Meaning: related to or associated with a mother 
Example: The cat’s maternal instincts led her to adopt the lost puppy.

Word: Matriarch
Meaning: a woman who leads a tribe or family
Example: My mother is the family matriarch who has the final say in household affairs.

Word: Matriarchy
Meaning: a family unit; group; or administration managed by a single woman or a team of women
Example: The tribe of female warriors has always been ruled by a matriarchy.

Word: Matriculate
Meaning: to become a student at a school; especially a college or university
Example: After high school; I will matriculate at a local community college.

Word: Matrilineal
Meaning: associated with the female line of the family
Example: Since my mother and two of my sisters have died from cancer; I can only assume the disease is matrilineal.

Word: Matrimony
Meaning: the state of being married
Example: The man and woman are in a state of holy matrimony; being not just a man and woman but a husband and wife.

Word: Matrix
Meaning: an environment in which the development or formation of something occurs 
Example:  In the film; an alternate world had developed inside of the matrix.

Word: Matron
Meaning: an older; serious-minded married woman who usually has a high social position
Example: The matron was highly regarded for her philanthropic endeavors in her community.

Word: Matronly
Meaning: used to describe a middle-aged; married woman who is plump and dresses in a plain way
Example: The more matronly customers selected long skirts and flats rather than mini-skirts and tall boots.

Word: Matte
Meaning: describing a color that is dull and has no shine
Example: This brown color is extremely matte; dull and lifeless but supposedly a good color for this piece of furniture; according to my mother.

Word: Matter
Meaning: be of importance of have significance
Example: Clara insisted that the messiness of her room shouldn’t matter; but her mother thinks keeping a clean house is important.

Word: Matter
Meaning: a substance or object that occupies physical space
Example: The matter changed from a solid to a liquid form when it was placed in the sun to melt.

Word: Mature
Meaning: to gain experience or wisdom with age; full grown
Example: Emily said to her children; “Instead of calling each other names; can we discuss this in a mature manner?”

Word: Maturity
Meaning: of full development
Example: When the cherry tree reaches maturity; it will produce fruit.

Word: Maudlin
Meaning: showing or expressing too much emotion especially in a foolish or annoying way
Example: The girl’s performance was so maudlin that people started to boo her off the stage.

Word: Maul
Meaning: to wound someone by scratching or tearing them; often used in reference to animals
Example: I would never go near a bear even in captivity; for fear that it would maul me with its huge teeth and claws.

Word: Mauled
Meaning: attacked and mangled
Example: Because it seemed friendly; neighbors were surprise to hear the dog had mauled a pedestrian.

Word: Mausoleum
Meaning: a large elegant building that holds tombs
Example: The king wants to be entombed inside of a mausoleum.

Word: Maverick 
Meaning: tending to choose a different path from everyone else
Example: The maverick politician promised to leave behind the ways of the old guard and bring change to the government.

Word: Mawkish 
Meaning: being overly sentimental to the point it comes across as fake or silly
Example: The star’s mawkish poem at her mentor’s funeral was so insincere that most of the guests rolled their eyes.

Word: Maxim
Meaning: a phrase that is often used as a guiding rule
Example: My grandmother had a wise maxim to help me get through all of my teenage crises.

Word: Maximize
Meaning: to increase something in size; amount; or importance as much as possible
Example: If you increase your advertising in certain areas; you may also be able to maximize profits for your products.

Word: Maximum
Meaning: the highest amount possible
Example: After the opening of Pandora at Disney World; the park was forced to closed their doors because they had reached the maximum number of guests allowed in the park at one time.

Word: Maximum
Meaning: the total amount or limit
Example: We are looking for a house with a maximum of four bedrooms because any more than that would be too many.

Word: Mayhap
Meaning: perhaps or possibly
Example: Mayhap we should leave this cave before we encounter whichever creature calls it home?

Word: Mayhem
Meaning: chaos or disorder
Example: During the busy holiday season; most of the stores seem to be in a constant state of mayhem.

Word: Mea Culpa
Meaning: an acknowledgement of having done wrong (my bad)
Example: The magazine issued a mea culpa after they cited an incorrect statistic.

Word: Meager
Meaning: very small or too small in amount
Example: My daughter is quick to complain about what she considers to be a meager allowance.

Word: Mean
Meaning: characterized as cruel or antagonistic; but often in a petty manner
Example: A mean bully might try and take your lunch money from time to time; but such things are hardly unspeakably cruel.

Word: Meander
Meaning: to move slowly without any real purpose
Example: The confused old man will sometimes come into the store and meander for hours without making a purchase.

Word: Meaningful
Meaning: having a serious; important; or useful quality or purpose 
Example: Whenever she tried to have a meaningful conversation with her boyfriend; he always changed the subject to a new cat video or trending meme.

Word: Meant
Meaning: the past tense form of mean that is used to express what someone intended or had in mind
Example: I meant to send off the package; but left it sitting on the kitchen counter.

Word: Meanwhile
Meaning: at the same time but elsewhere
Example: “Victoria; dinner will be ready in ten minutes; meanwhile please set the table.”

Word: Measly
Meaning: an extremely; almost laughably small amount
Example: Briana hoped her mother would pay her well for babysitting her brothers but she only got a measly $5.

Word: Measure
Meaning: to gage or calculate an amount
Example: Using a cup to measure ¼ cup; the chef sifted just the right amount into the bowl.

Word: Measurement
Meaning: the size or length of something
Example: The seamstress guessed the measurement of the man’s shoulders and then confirmed with her tape.

Word: Mechanical Energy
Meaning: sum of all energy in an object used for work; such as the energy transferred in a swinging hammer
Example: The mechanical energy of a wheel is the sum of the energy produced while it is rotating; both in the wheel itself and the axle that turns it.

Word: Mechanical
Meaning: linked to machinery or tools
Example: A mechanical engineer was needed to fix the broken conveyer belt.

Word: Mechanism
Meaning: a piece of a machine that plays a specific role in its operation
Example: Visitors were stuck on the Ferris wheel for hours when the mechanism that controlled the rotation stopped working.

Word: Medallion
Meaning: a piece of jewelry crafted in the shape of a medal; often worn around the neck as a pendant
Example: The officer received a spectacular medallion from his commander in chief; a medal to wear around his neck for his service in the war.

Word: Meddle
Meaning: to interfere in something that is not your concern
Example: Because my mother-in-law is trying to meddle in my marriage; I want her out of my house immediately.

Word: Meddlesome
Meaning: tending to interfere in other people’s affairs
Example: Meddlesome men spent their morning drinking coffee and discussing their neighbors business.

Word: Medial
Meaning: situated in the middle of something
Example: With three people standing in a line; the person in the middle of the line has a medial position.

Word: Median
Meaning: the middle number of a set of ordered numbers
Example: The median household income for this major city is $56;000 with half of the lower incomes being below that amount and the higher incomes being above that amount.

Word: Mediate
Meaning: to help solve conflicts
Example: My husband is the one who usually has to mediate the disagreements between our sons.

Word: Mediator
Meaning: one that serves as a go-between during a dispute
Example: A mediator was needed to help the divorcing couple come to an agreement.

Word: Medicare
Meaning: a free health insurance program in the United States for older or disabled people
Example: Since my elderly mother has poor health; Medicare is her supplier of health care should she need medical attention.

Word: Medicinal
Meaning: used to cure pain and diseases
Example: Medicinal herbs were added to the tea to cure the woman’s stomachache.

Word: Medicine
Meaning: a substance used to treat disease
Example: Without medicine to ease his headache; the man had no choice but to go to bed early.

Word: Medieval
Meaning: relating to the Middle Ages
Example: Medieval feasts were thrown for royalty and nobles during the Middle Ages.

Word: Mediocre
Meaning: average; not great or extraordinary
Example: Because Janice does not apply herself in school; she is a mediocre student.

Word: Mediocre
Meaning: of ordinary or average quality
Example: The mediocre meal wasn’t the worst I’ve had; but it wasn’t the best either.

Word: Meditative 
Meaning: in deep contemplation
Example: The dog seemed to be in a meditative state as he stared at his empty food dish that hadn’t been filled in two days.

Word: Mediterranean
Meaning: representative of the Mediterranean Sea or culture of the people surrounding it
Example: Her olive skin and dark hair was typical of a Mediterranean woman.

Word: Medium
Meaning: in between small and large
Example: When trying on a swimsuit; Carrie chose a medium since the small was too tight but the large was sagging.

Word: Medley
Meaning: a mixture of things
Example: A medley of horrific shouts rose up out of the crowd when they realized the concert was canceled.

Word: Meed
Meaning: a much deserved reward or honor
Example: Even though she had six children; the loving mother was able to give each a meed of her time and attention.

Word: Meek
Meaning: restrained; unwilling to speak up
Example: Although the meek girl knew the answer to the teacher’s question; she was too nervous to raise her hand.

Word: Meekly
Meaning: doing something in a humble and modest way
Example: The shy girl hung her head as she meekly followed behind her older sisters.

Word: Meeting
Meaning: a gathering of people coming together
Example: Once managements gathers more information we will notify everyone for another meeting soon.

Word: Megabyte
Meaning: a unit equal to one million bytes that is used to measure how much information a computer can store
Example: The disk contained one megabyte of storage space.

Word: Megalith
Meaning: a large stone that was used as a building block in prehistoric structures
Example: A gigantic megalith was used to create a stone graveyard in 3000 B.C. Germany.

Word: Megalomania
Meaning: a mental disorder that leads individuals to think they are more influential and powerful than everyone else
Example: Helen’s megalomania allowed her to believe she could drive under the influence without putting her life in jeopardy.

Word: Megalopolis
Meaning:  a region comprised of several big cities
Example: As the cities in the area have grown; the population of the megalopolis has greatly expanded.

Word: Megaton
Meaning: an explosive force measurement that is used for nuclear weapons (equals one million tons of TNT)
Example: The megaton missile exploded with great force as it reached its target.

Word: Megawatt
Meaning: a unit for measuring electricity that is equal to one million watts of power
Example: The current national average of homes powered by a megawatt of solar power is 160.

Word: Meiosis
Meaning: a cellular process in which a single cell divides twice to produce four cells containing half the original amount of genetic information
Example: During meiosis; the parent cell duplicated and recombined to produce new cell.

Word: Melancholy
Meaning: a feeling of deep sadness
Example: The film’s tragic ending put us all in a melancholy mood.

Word: Meld
Meaning: to blend or merge things together
Example: Singing in harmony; the musicians were able to meld their voices.

Word: Melee
Meaning: a brawl; riot or fight
Example: I hate to go shopping during the holiday season because it feels like a melee with everyone pushing and shoving in the aisles.

Word: Meliorate
Meaning: to improve or make something better
Example: As a counselor; it was his job to try and meliorate the relationship between the two family members.

Word: Meliorism
Meaning: the idea that human effort is the key to making the world a better place
Example: As a believer in meliorism; the activist felt that every small effort he made had a positive effect on the world.

Word: Melliferous
Meaning: bearing or producing honey
Example: Melliferous flowers were collected to make honey.

Word: Mellifluous
Meaning: having a smooth; flowing sound
Example: The actor has a mellifluous voice that could lull anyone into a deep sleep.

Word: Mellow
Meaning: to become calm and easy-going due to being older or having more practice
Example: My mother became mellow once she became a grandmother because she would never let me eat unhealthy foods that she feeds to her grandchildren.

Word: Melodious
Meaning: having a pleasing sound
Example: His melodious voice carried over all of the other students in the Christmas program.

Word: Melodramatic
Meaning: overemotional
Example: For the practical viewer; the soap opera was way too melodramatic.

Word: Melody
Meaning: a simple tune that sounds harmoniously
Example: When the singer sang the song; her voice belted out the beautiful lyrics against the backdrop of the melody.

Word: Melt
Meaning: to dissolve something solid through heat
Example: The ice at North and South Poles is beginning to melt now that the temperature of our atmosphere is starting to rise.

Word: Melting pot
Meaning: where a set a diverse individuals coexist side by side
Example: Yugoslavia was a melting pot of citizens who spoke different languages and practiced diverse religions.

Word: Membership
Meaning: an individual becomes a member of a club; group; or organization
Example: Amanda was pleasantly surprised to receive a one year membership to a local fitness center for a birthday present paid for by her children.

Word: Memento
Meaning: a keepsake; an object kept as a reminder of a place or event
Example: The necklace I received from my late husband is a loving memento from my time spent with him.

Word: Memo
Meaning: a written message; especially in business
Example: The manager of the finance department sent a memo out to employees telling them when the next meeting would be held.

Word: Memoir 
Meaning: a description of a life or event written by a person with firsthand knowledge 
Example: The actress wrote a backdated memoir that began with the final days of her life.

Word: Memorabilia
Meaning: items treasured by people due to their past fascination in a remarkable person or occasion
Example: Due to the baseball memorabilia scattered across the garage sale table; the patrons realized that the homeowner brought home many souvenirs from the baseball games he attended.

Word: Memorable
Meaning: notable and unforgettable
Example: By marrying her soulmate on her perfect day; Beverly knew this would be the most memorable event of her life.

Word: Memorandum
Meaning: a short note about a specific situation serving as a reminder
Example: The Human Resources Department sent out a memorandum to all of the employees with the information pertaining to the upcoming holiday party.

Word: Memorial
Meaning: something serving as a remembrance of someone or event
Example: There was so many people today who attended the memorial of a young girl killed by her father.

Word: Menace
Meaning: an individual or situation that causes problems
Example: My neighbor’s dog is a menace who seems to enjoy going potty on my porch.

Word: Menagerie
Meaning: a diverse collection
Example: The president expected a menagerie of questions from the group of reporters.

Word: Mend
Meaning: to repair or fix something that is broken or damaged
Example: There’s no way to mend my broken shoe; so I’ll just need to buy a new pair.

Word: Mendacious
Meaning: lying; not telling the truth
Example: Chuck is mendacious about his vegetarianism because he eats chicken.

Word: Mendacity
Meaning: lack of honesty
Example: Since honesty is very important to me; I was deeply offended by my ex-husband’s mendacity.

Word: Mendicant
Meaning: an individual who begs for a living
Example: The mendicant hoped pedestrians would drop money in his bucket.

Word: Menial
Meaning: relating to tasks normally performed by a servant
Example: Everyone was surprised to see the company president doing menial labor he could easily pass on to one of his employees.

Word: Mental
Meaning: relating to the mind or to the health or state of one's mind
Example: The teacher’s mental strength was tested when the principal was observing her.

Word: Mentality
Meaning: a pattern of thought
Example: The stern preacher’s mentality was that any music other than Christian music had sinful overtones.

Word: Mention
Meaning: to make a short reference to something
Example: I will mention to your father when he calls me from work that he needs to take you to your baseball game tonight.

Word: Mentor
Meaning: someone who teaches or gives advice to someone less experienced
Example: Because she was a new teacher; Betsy needed a mentor to show her how to set up her classroom.

Word: Mephitic
Meaning: Bad-smelling; having a foul odor especially of gas or vapor
Example: The car’s mephitic fumes choked up the passengers in a nearby sedan.

Word: Mercantile
Meaning: concerned with the buying and selling of goods for money
Example: I joined our family’s mercantile business; buying and selling paper goods.

Word: Mercantilism
Meaning: an economic system in which a nation tries to become more affluent by exporting more goods than it brings into the country and by protecting its store of precious metals
Example: One of the reasons England developed the colonies under mercantilism was to increase its trading territory.

Word: Mercenary
Meaning: motivated by private gain; regardless of ethics or laws; greedy
Example: Following his employer’s instructions; the mercenary killed the woman and her baby without a second thought.

Word: Merch
Meaning: a shortened form of the word merchandise (products that people sell)
Example: We went to the clothing store for new merch but didn’t find any eye-catching pieces.

Word: Merchant
Meaning: one who trades in goods to earn a profit
Example: The greedy merchant raised the price of bread and milk during the blizzard.

Word: Merciful
Meaning: compassionate and generous
Example: After winning the lottery; the merciful winner donated every penny of her winnings to the homeless shelter.

Word: Merciless
Meaning: without mercy. ruthless and unforgiving
Example: The merciless sun of the desert will quickly drain all travelers of both water and will; ensuring a painful demise if one does not enter its sands prepared.

Word: Merciless
Meaning: cruel and without mercy or pity
Example: The merciless dictator killed everyone that went against his regime.

Word: Mercurial
Meaning: subject to sudden or unpredictable changes
Example: Because Mary is taking a new medication; her moods have become quite mercurial and change with the wind.

Word: Mercy
Meaning: tendency towards forgiveness; pity and kindness
Example: Beth’s strict parents showed mercy after she missed her curfew because she helped a stranded female motorist by jump starting her car battery.

Word: Mere
Meaning: in regards to an individual or thing that is viewed as unimportant or small
Example: Although Bailey was a mere boy; he knew he would become a world leader one day.

Word: Merely
Meaning: only; just; and nothing more
Example: The knight wondered how he; being merely a man; could hope to defeat the dragon.

Word: Meretricious
Meaning: tastelessly showy; attractive on the surface but having in reality no value or substance; falsely alluring
Example: Because of Christie’s meretricious style of dressing; she has often been mistaken for a prostitute and has received a number of indecent proposals.

Word: Merge
Meaning: to come together into one unit
Example: When the struggling nursery was about to go bankrupt; it decided to merge with the seed store since they both were in the same business.

Word: Merger
Meaning: the joining of two things into one
Example: The merger of the two companies happened in February when the smaller corporation joined the larger.

Word: Meridian
Meaning: an imaginary line that passes from the North Pole to the South Pole
Example: The equator and the prime meridian are imaginary lines used to find longitude and latitude on a map.

Word: Meringue
Meaning: a pie topping that is browned after being made from beaten egg whites and sugar
Example: Edith whipped up a meringue to be added to the list of sweet and light treats.

Word: Merit
Meaning: something that deserves to be recognized or praised
Example: Jill earned an award of merit for never missing a day of school in twelve years.

Word: Meritocracy
Meaning: a system in which the leaders are chose based on intellect; talent; or merit; not other factors such as race; popularity; or economic status
Example: Mr. Young longed to live in a meritocracy where the leaders of the free world were the ones who earned their places based on their accomplishments.

Word: Meritorious 
Meaning: deserving of rewards or praise
Example: Of all his achievements; winning the gold medal was definitely his most meritorious.

Word: Merriment
Meaning: laughter; happiness; and enjoyment
Example: The party was filled with the wonderful sounds of merriment.

Word: Mesh
Meaning: to connect or lock together
Example: The band can’t seem to mesh well together and continuously play off key.

Word: Mesmerized
Meaning: captivated by something or someone
Example: Because Jennifer was mesmerized by the author’s writing style; she purchased all of his books.

Word: Mesosphere
Meaning: an area between two layers in the Earth’s atmosphere where it gets colder as the elevation increases
Example: In the mesosphere the alien spaceship recorded the increasing temperatures every few minutes in this layer as it came closer to Earth.

Word: Message
Meaning: usually a brief form of communication sent to someone in form of written or spoken
Example: If I can’t answer my phone when you call; please leave me a message and I will call you back.

Word: Messenger
Meaning: a person who delivers someone a message; packages or documents
Example: The law firm sent a messenger to pick up the documents from their clients business office.

Word: Messiah
Meaning: one who is thought to be the savior of a certain group
Example: Many of the politician’s followers see him as a messiah who will fix all of their problems.

Word: Meta
Meaning: a prefix added to a word to explain that one thing is related to other things
Example: The meta-search sites found on the internet all link to the same information.

Word: Metabolism
Meaning: the chemical reactions which cause fat cells and/or calories to burn 
Example: Jan can eat anything without gaining weight because of her fast metabolism.

Word: Metabolize
Meaning: to break down food in the body so it can be used for energy
Example: His body didn’t metabolize iron normally; so he took an iron supplement daily.

Word: Metamorphosis
Meaning: an observable change
Example: When Chet started exercising on a regular basis; he experienced a huge physical metamorphosis.

Word: Metaphor
Meaning: the use of a word or phrase something that it is not; invoking a direct similarity between them and the thing described
Example: He uses the metaphor of fire to represent hatred.

Word: Metaphysical
Meaning: associated with what is believed to be present yet not visible
Example: In the book; the main character spoke to a metaphysical being he couldn’t see.

Word: Metastasize
Meaning: to spread or grow to other sites
Example: The idea of revolution began to metastasize and spread like wildfire from Moscow to the impoverished Russian countryside.

Word: Mete
Meaning: to give out or distribute
Example: After being caught stealing; the boy waited for his father to mete out his punishment.

Word: Meteor
Meaning: a piece of debris from space that enters Earth’s atmosphere and becomes luminescent due to friction; appearing as a streak of light
Example: The satellite from outer space become a meteor as it fell into the atmosphere; coming alight with flame.

Word: Meter
Meaning: the basic unit of length in the metric system
Example: A metric ruler was used to measure the shelf to the nearest meter.

Word: Method
Meaning: a procedure or technique used to accomplish as task
Example: My simple method to cake baking is different from most pastry baker’s techniques.

Word: Methodical
Meaning: in an ordered manner
Example: My husband is very organized and has a methodical approach for doing every task.

Word: Meticulous
Meaning: showing great attention to detail; very careful and precise
Example: Because Haley is a meticulous cleaner; every inch of her house is spotless.

Word: Metonymy
Meaning: a form of speech in which the title of a thing or person is used to replace a name associated with it 
Example: When you refer to the film industry as Hollywood; you’re using a metonymy by calling one subject a name that equates to it.

Word: Metropolis
Meaning: a large; heavily populated city
Example: Accustomed to country life; the farmer had a difficult time adjusting to his new home in a metropolis.

Word: Mettle
Meaning: strength of spirit; the ability to continue despite difficulties
Example: Of all the young men in the village; Caldor was the only one with enough mettle to face the dragon in its lair.

Word: Milieu
Meaning: the environment in which one experiences life
Example: Because my father grew up in a military milieu; he knew he wanted to join the armed forces when he graduated from high school.

Word: Militant
Meaning: prone to engage in conflict for a belief or cause
Example: Since the militant group believes the president is a brutal dictator; it is crafting a plan to remove him from office.

Word: Militarism
Meaning: an ideology which claims that the military is the foundation of a society's security; and thereby its most important aspect
Example: Because he was a veteran; many of his political ideals followed a form of militarism.

Word: Military
Meaning: the armed forces of a country
Example: Without a military; a country cannot wage war with another for lack of soldiers and weapons to wage it with.

Word: Militate
Meaning: to influence or have an effect upon 
Example: The rain will militate a change of venue for our picnic.

Word: Militia
Meaning: a military force of trained and organized civilians who may be called to duty
Example: The militia was assigned to assist the police until the National Guard troops arrived.

Word: Mill
Meaning: a manufacturing plant for paper; steel; textiles; etc.
Example: Our local paper mill mostly hire people through a temp agency for short-term contracts.

Word: Millennium
Meaning: a period that covers one thousand years
Example: The year 2000 saw the end of another millennium.

Word: Millipede
Meaning: bug whose skeleton is on the outside of its body and is known for having many legs
Example: As the millipede crossed the room; the children were mesmerized by all of his little appendages transporting his body across the floor.

Word: Milquetoast
Meaning: a fearful or shy individual
Example: As the milquetoast quietly shuffled down the street with his shoulders hunched; his eyes would dart around hoping no one would see him.

Word: Mime
Meaning: a performer that uses movements and gestures instead of words to express something or tell a story
Example: The face-painted mime used its hands to pretend that it was stuck in a box while performing for the children.

Word: Mimic
Meaning: to imitate
Example: Bert can mimic the barking of a dog to perfection; scaring thieves away from his property.

Word: Mimicry
Meaning: the act of mirroring an action or behavior
Example: During the talent show; the boy won the audience over when he performed a mimicry of his favorite rapper.

Word: Minatory
Meaning: expressing a threat
Example: The hate group left a minatory threat in the form of a burning cross on the couple’s lawn.

Word: Mince
Meaning: finely chopped
Example: When we cook we will mince the onions and peppers so they will enhance the flavor of the meat and not overpower the meats overall taste.

Word: Mincing
Meaning: dainty and refined; especially in the way that one walks
Example: The woman spoke to her precious pup in a sweet and mincing voice.

Word: Mindful
Meaning: thoughtful; considerate and dutiful
Example: Since the child was burned by a fire; the teacher told the other students to be mindful of their classmate’s feelings by refraining from talking about the blaze.

Word: Mindless
Meaning: to be done without explanation or care for the results of the actions
Example: The criminal committed mindless acts of violence where innocent people were hurt.

Word: Mindset
Meaning: an established set of attitudes and beliefs that someone holds
Example: A person’s mindset is often determined by how they have been raised and the experiences they have had; though the way they think can change over time.

Word: Mingle
Meaning: To mix or combine (people or objects) 
Example: The spies decided to mingle in with the crowd and see if they could find the killer.

Word: Miniature
Meaning: petite in size compared to a larger representation of the item
Example: A miniature model of the castle was created with modeling clay and made it easy to see what the whole castle looked like.

Word: Minimal
Meaning: likely the smallest amount 
Example: With minimal supervision; the employee was supposed to work by himself and pose only limited questions to the boss.

Word: Minimum
Meaning: the smallest or lowest of something
Example: Since the minimum age requirement to ride the amusement park’s roller coaster was 12; the 11-year old had to wait for her friends on the ground.

Word: Minion
Meaning: an individual who obeys the commands of another person
Example: At work; I’m a minion who does everything my boss says.

Word: Minister
Meaning: a person who is trained to perform religious worship
Example: The minister at our local church spoke a fresh and interesting sermon to their parishioners on Easter Sunday.

Word: Minor
Meaning: a legal term meaning child or one under the age of 18
Example: The clerk at the store got in trouble for selling cigarettes to a sixteen-year-old minor.

Word: Minority
Meaning: the smaller percentage of the whole
Example: As they looked around the room full of red-clad Republicans; the Democrats knew they were in the minority and their hopes of stopping the bill were destroyed.

Word: Minuscule
Meaning: quite small
Example: Many fast food workers are quitting their jobs because of minuscule salaries.

Word: Minute
Meaning: a unit that equals 60 seconds of time
Example: With the last test for the school year approaching; Carol is spending every spare minute studying.

Word: Minutiae
Meaning: tiny unimportant details 
Example: The students ignored their teacher as she told them minutiae about her boring life.

Word: Miraculous
Meaning: astounding in a way that suggests a miracle
Example: Her miraculous recovery surprised the hospital staff.

Word: Mirage 
Meaning: an illusion that appears real but does not exist 
Example: When I was stranded in the desert; I saw a lake that turned out to be nothing but a mirage.

Word: Mire
Meaning: a situation or circumstance from which it is difficult to escape
Example: Getting arrested was a mire of unfortunate circumstances the parolee had tried to avoid.

Word: Mirror Image
Meaning: a person or thing that closely looks like someone or something else
Example: Amber is a mirror image of her mother and looks just like her mom did when she was young.

Word: Mirrored
Meaning: having a surface that is reflective like a mirror
Example: The mirrored sunglasses reflect out and stop others from seeing through the lens.

Word: Mirth
Meaning: amusement and joy
Example: It was obvious from Jacob’s mirth he found the movie to be quite funny.

Word: Mirthful
Meaning: filled with joy
Example: The mirthful boy couldn't stop smiling after opening his holiday gifts.

Word: Misanthrope
Meaning: a person who hates or distrusts humankind
Example: The old man was a misanthrope who surrounded his entire yard with barbed wire to keep his neighbors at bay.

Word: Misapprehension
Meaning: a failure to understand something
Example: The Police Commissioner is under the misapprehension that he can do what he chooses without following the laws.

Word: Misbehave
Meaning: to act disobey or act in a way that is bad
Example: Because the child continued to misbehave; he was placed in the corner for a time out.

Word: Miscegenation
Meaning: the mixing or blending of race; interracial marriage
Example: Laws against miscegenation caused one to never see a married couple with a Caucasian husband with an African American wife.

Word: Miscellaneous
Meaning: consisting of many different kinds of things that might not go together
Example: As a collector; he would sometimes buy a miscellaneous assortment of pennies hoping to find one worthy money.

Word: Mischief
Meaning: playful wrongdoing or troublemaking
Example: The children would always get into mischief if they were left unattended.

Word: Mischievous
Meaning: badly behaved; naughty
Example: Garry’s dog is very mischievous so don’t be thrown off by its cute smile.

Word: Miscible
Meaning: capable of two fluid substances being completely mixed together
Example: Since the contents in the glass became cloudy; it was apparent to the girl that the miscible solution in her glass had more than one liquid in it.

Word: Misconceived
Meaning: to misunderstand
Example: I can’t believe there’s still people who often compare misconceived women to be weak in a leadership role.

Word: Misconception
Meaning: a belief that is incorrect
Example: The explorer set out to disprove the misconception about the Earth’s flatness.

Word: Misconduct
Meaning: unacceptable or inappropriate behavior
Example: Police misconduct within the sheriff’s department caused several officers to be fired.

Word: Misconstrued
Meaning: to interpret something the wrong way
Example: Carla had no idea that her intended compliment had been completely misconstrued by her aunt.

Word: Miscount
Meaning: to count something incorrectly
Example: Because there are hundreds of pills in the bottle; it is very easy to miscount the amount inside the container.

Word: Miscreant
Meaning: an individual who has misbehaved
Example: The principal took the miscreant out of my classroom and placed him in the in-school suspension room.

Word: Misdeal
Meaning: to make a mistake while dealing cards
Example: The casino worker was careful not to misdeal when shelling out cards to the poker player.

Word: Misdeed
Meaning: something that should not have been done
Example: Gina will have to serve some jail time for her misdeed.

Word: Misdemeanor
Meaning: a minor crime
Example: After driving her vehicle on a suspended license; the woman was slapped by the court with a misdemeanor requiring her to pay a fine and spend the night in jail.

Word: Misdirection
Meaning: the action or process of directing someone to the wrong place or wrong instruction
Example: Misdirection of the tourists caused them to be lost downtown for several hours.

Word: Mise-en-scene
Meaning: the process of setting up a stage for a play or performance
Example: The crowd seemed oblivious to the mise-en-scene; keeping their eyes on the actors even as the scenery was being changed.

Word: Miser 
Meaning: an individual who tries to spend as little money as possible
Example: To save money; the miser ate only one meal a day.

Word: Miserable
Meaning: extremely unhappy and depressed
Example: Though she pretended to be happy; the woman was really miserable and hated her life.

Word: Miserly 
Meaning: tight with money; stingy
Example: The miserly billionaire complained about paying two dollars for a cheeseburger.

Word: Misery
Meaning: a state of suffering
Example: Living in a state of misery; the refugees suffered greatly because of their country’s war.

Word: Misfire
Meaning: to fail to fire a gun or missile correctly
Example: A glitch in the release system caused the rocket to misfire and it quickly exploded in place.

Word: Misfit
Meaning: a person whose personality or behavior sets them apart from others
Example: Because she is such a social misfit; Gina has a hard time finding anyone at school wants to be her friend.

Word: Misfortune
Meaning: an unfortunate event
Example: A misfortune caused Bill to miss his own birthday party.

Word: Misgiving
Meaning: a feeling of doubt
Example: When I learned my daughter’s boyfriend had just been released from prison; my misgiving about him became stronger.

Word: Misgovern
Meaning: to run a country or organization unfairly or inefficiently
Example: Because they are being bribed; it’s not shock that the administration would misgovern the country.

Word: Mishap
Meaning: an unpredictable accident; mistake or problem
Example: At the yearly fourth of July fireworks tonight; there was a mishap due to computer software problems that shut down the show early.

Word: Mislead
Meaning: to make someone believe something that is untrue by giving them wrong or incomplete information
Example: She would mislead all of her boyfriends into believing she wanted something more serious.

Word: Misleading
Meaning: giving the wrong idea or information
Example: Misleading advertisements made it seem the phone was being offered for free when it was not.

Word: Mismanage
Meaning: to handle something badly or inappropriately
Example: The over spender tends to mismanage his money and waste it on frivolous things like candy and gambling.

Word: Mismanagement
Meaning: handling of something in a way that is wrong or inappropriate
Example: The student’s mismanagement of her time caused her to miss her class and fail her test.

Word: Mismatch
Meaning: to combine two things that are not supposed to go together
Example: If you decide to mismatch your socks you will look funny to everyone that sees them; especially if they are different colors.

Word: Misnomer
Meaning: a name or description that is incorrect or inappropriate
Example: Since Fred is very skinny; calling him Fat Fred is indeed a misnomer.

Word: Misogyny
Meaning: an intense dislike of females
Example: The boy’s misogyny hailed from the abuse he suffered from his mother.

Word: Misprint
Meaning: an error in a printed text
Example: There is a misprint in the very first page of this book; as it misspells at least three words on the first page.

Word: Misrepresent
Meaning: to represent falsely; to inaccurately portray something
Example: The video has been edited and doctored out of context to misrepresent the event as it actually occurred.

Word: Misshapen
Meaning: altered or damaged so that it no longer resembles its original form
Example: The shopper picked up the misshapen apple; noted it’s bruised skin and tossed it back in the basket.

Word: Missionary
Meaning: someone sent on a mission to help others and convince people to join a particular religion
Example: The missionary spent hours every day going door to door; handing out religious pamphlets and books.

Word: Missive
Meaning: a written note 
Example: While sitting in class; Greg asked his classmate to pass a love missive to his dream girl.

Word: Misspell
Meaning: to spell a word incorrectly
Example: Before the spelling bee started; the children were told if they misspell a word; the speller would be removed from the competition.

Word: Misstep
Meaning: to step badly or incorrectly
Example: One wrong misstep during a dance competition may end your chances of moving on to the finale.

Word: Mistake
Meaning: an error or slip-up
Example: The mom made a mistake when she bought cake instead of vanilla.

Word: Mistaken
Meaning: wrong or incorrect
Example: Paul thought he saw a ghost in the corner; but his parents assured him that he was mistaken.

Word: Mistaking
Meaning: confusing
Example: Mistaking the salt for sugar seemed to ruin my cookies which caused everyone to refuse them.

Word: Mistreat
Meaning: ill-treat someone or an animal physically or emotionally
Example: When people mistreat their pets; they should pay a hefty fine with some of the money going to the animal shelter.

Word: Mistrial
Meaning: a trial that ends through an error in the proceedings
Example: Bill Cosby’s rape hearing ended in a mistrial since the jurors were deadlocked and couldn’t come to a decision.

Word: Mistrust
Meaning: a feeling of doubt or suspicion
Example: After Kurt was severely bitten by a dog; he developed a mistrust of most animals.

Word: Misuse
Meaning: to mistreat or abuse
Example: Naughty children may misuse toys that don’t belong to them by breaking them or throwing them across the room.

Word: Mite
Meaning: a little or slightly
Example: The man was acting a mite suspicious; enough that the cops stopped him to find out what he was up to.

Word: Mitigate
Meaning: make less severe or painful
Example: The doctor gave me a prescription to mitigate the pain.

Word: Mitochondria
Meaning: an organelle found inside a cell that produces energy
Example: As the powerhouse of animal cells; mitochondria are responsible for making energy-packed proteins.

Word: Mitosis
Meaning: the course in which a cell divides and forms two distinct cells; each having the same amount of chromosomes as the original cell
Example: A worm that has been split apart can often regenerate through a type of cell division known as mitosis.

Word: Mixed economy
Meaning: a system that protects the property of private citizens and allows the use of capital but also allows for governments to interfere in the economy to accomplish social aims
Example: A mixed economy has both private companies and government owned entities.

Word: Mixture
Meaning: an item made by blending different substances together
Example: A mixture of vodka and orange juice is referred to as a screwdriver.

Word: Mnemonic
Meaning: anything (especially something in verbal form) used to help remember something
Example: Our math professor taught us a simple mnemonic for remembering how to complete the equation.

Word: Moat
Meaning: a thin stream of water that completely surrounds right outside a large house or fortress 
Example: Since the dragon could not swim; he dared not cross the moat to any window or door of the castle.

Word: Mob
Meaning: an unruly; generally violent crowd of people intent on destruction or harm
Example: The police had to bring out riot shields to hold back the unruly mob of people that were trying to push them back.

Word: Mobile
Meaning: capable of being moved; portable
Example: A mobile blood bank parked their bus in a busy shopping center to draw shoppers into stopping by to donate blood.

Word: Mobility
Meaning: the ability to shift from one place to another
Example: My broken leg limits my mobility.

Word: Mockery 
Meaning: ridicule that is directed at a person; group; or thing
Example: The judge’s fake praise was nothing more than a mockery of my performance.

Word: Modality
Meaning: the way in which something is executed
Example: John gets multiple assignments done by working in a productive modality that allows him to combine tasks.

Word: Mode
Meaning: the way in which something is done or happens
Example: Every parent’s preferred mode of communication was email because it was much easier to access than taking a telephone call.

Word: Model
Meaning: a smaller replica of an object
Example: Based on the World War II stealth bomber; Johnny built a model of the plane using a kit and some art supplies.

Word: Modeled
Meaning: displayed clothing by wearing it
Example: The designer’s assistant modeled a gray sheath dress from with a wool overcoat during the winter show.

Word: Moderate
Meaning: An average amount
Example: The girl’s mild to moderate asthma did not affect her in the way it does a person with severe breathing problems.

Word: Moderately
Meaning: fairly; reasonably
Example: A string of moderately priced homes hit the market at the same time; creating a positive buyer’s market.

Word: Moderation
Meaning: the act of restraining oneself from doing something excessively
Example: Eating fatty foods is acceptable as long as you do it in moderation without overdoing it.

Word: Modern
Meaning: taking place during the current times
Example: Using modern warfare; the number of casualties in war has decreased through the use of drones and other high tech equipment.

Word: Modernism
Meaning: a movement towards modifying traditional beliefs with modern ideas
Example: Residential modernism in the area moved homes away from country looks and towards clean lines.

Word: Modernity
Meaning: the quality of being current or contemporary
Example: The modernity of the Titanic caused many to believe that its technological advancement made it unsinkable.

Word: Modest 
Meaning: of moderate amount
Example: With our modest incomes; my wife and I can usually afford two vacations a year.

Word: Modesty
Meaning: being reserved in behavior or clothing
Example: Because of her modesty; the young woman was uncomfortable wearing a bathing suit in public.

Word: Modicum
Meaning: a small portion
Example: When Jane wore the short dress to the funeral; she proved she did not have a modicum of decency.

Word: Modification
Meaning: a change or augmentation to the base form of something
Example: Training wheels are a modification we add to normal bicycles so young children can learn to ride them safely.

Word: Modify
Meaning: to change or alter
Example: Teachers are allowed to modify certain student’s test to level the academic playing field.

Word: Modular
Meaning: to be built as an evenly sectioned component
Example: Since the office was built with modular cubicles; no one’s office was any bigger or better than anyone else’s.

Word: Modulate
Meaning: to control or regulate
Example: Several chemicals coming from the brain modulate appetite; controlling when the body feels hungry.

Word: Module
Meaning: a scholastic part which focuses on a topic that is part of a larger unit
Example: In order to pass the virtual course; the student had to complete each module pertaining to a different health issue.

Word: Modus operandi
Meaning: the usual way something is done; typically a pattern
Example: The chef’s modus operandi for preparing a meal always began with laying out all of the ingredients and tools needed on the counter.

Word: Mogul
Meaning: a powerful and/or wealthy individual
Example: The music mogul has a ten-billion-dollar recording empire.

Word: Moiety
Meaning: half of something or an equal portion of
Example: If the medicine makes you feel drowsy; you should only take a moiety of the dosage before going to work and the other half when you get home.

Word: Moil
Meaning: to work hard
Example: As they continued to moil in the field; the slaves became exhausted from the amount of work expected of them.

Word: Moist
Meaning: damp; wet
Example: Because it was a moist area; moss grew freely on the rainforest floor.

Word: Moisten
Meaning: to dampen something with water
Example: After licking the envelope to moisten it; I sealed it shut and placed it in the mailbox.

Word: Moisture
Meaning: a very small amount of liquid that gives off the feeling of wetness
Example: Moisture sensors are able to turn the vapor sensitive system on when it rains.

Word: Mojo
Meaning: magical power; voodoo
Example: The witch’s mojo was strong enough to make any man in the village fall head-over-heels for her.

Word: Molasses
Meaning: thick; brown syrup that is separated from raw sugar
Example: In some recipes; syrupy molasses can be substituted for sugar since they both have a sweet flavor.

Word: Mold
Meaning: a frame used to form something using pressure
Example: Each floral mold was used to create cookies that were in a flowerlike shape.

Word: Moldering
Meaning: decaying or rotting slowly; disintegrating
Example: Once valued possessions now sit moldering in an attic; frayed and covered in a thick layer dust.

Word: Mole
Meaning: a little; round; dark raised bump permanently on the skin 
Example: The family doctor recommended that his patient get the mole on his back checked out with a specialist since it had grown in size.

Word: Molecule
Meaning: a group of atoms that are bonded together
Example: When two atoms join together; a small molecule is created.

Word: Mollify
Meaning: to soothe in temper or disposition
Example: I am hoping the hot tea and crackers will mollify my husband and help him relax.

Word: Mollycoddle
Meaning: to handle someone or something in a shielding or indulging way
Example: Since the elderly woman only lived with her poodle; she would mollycoddle the dog by providing him with expensive dog treats and a bed fit for a king.

Word: Molt
Meaning: to peel off the outside coat or level of skin; feathers; or fur
Example: With dead shreds of skin lying around the cage; it was apparent that the lizard did molt his skin.

Word: Moment
Meaning: for a short unknown amount of time
Example: “I’ll take you to the pool in a moment;” my mother said to me so we quickly got into our swimsuits.

Word: Momentarily
Meaning: for something to happen briefly 
Example: I was momentarily caught off guard when someone sneezed during my enlightening speech.

Word: Momentary
Meaning: brief; short-lived
Example: A momentary loss of consciousness during a blackout didn’t last long; but was scary enough to stop the man from drinking.

Word: Momentous
Meaning: of huge significance
Example: It was a momentous occasion when the development team finished the project on time.

Word: Momentum 
Meaning: the force or strength of a moving object
Example: If the fundraising campaign does not gain momentum soon; we will not reach our goal.

Word: Momism
Meaning: excessive attachment to or domination by one’s mother
Example: Momism led the helicopter mother to follow her son everywhere he went.

Word: Monarchy
Meaning: a type of government in which an area is controlled by a monarch like a queen or king
Example: In a complete monarchy; the royal who runs the country makes all the major decisions for the nation.

Word: Monastery
Meaning: a place where monks live and work together
Example: Each monk at the monastery has committed himself to a life of peaceful solitude.

Word: Monastic
Meaning: relating to monks; nuns; or others who live a secluded life
Example: For the new monks who had recently joined the monastery; the monastic lifestyle was quite shocking.

Word: Mondegreen
Meaning: a word that results from the mishearing of something said or sung out loud
Example: Singing the incorrect lyrics; the girl belted out a mondegreen into the microphone.

Word: Monetary
Meaning: of or relating to money or currency
Example: Our bank keeps fake bank notes with no monetary value for use in case of a bank robbery.

Word: Monetize
Meaning: the process of converting something into money
Example: Website builders are looking for new ways to monetize their sites outside of normal advertisements.

Word: Money laundering
Meaning: the process of putting illegally earned money into legal businesses and accounts as a way to make it seem as if the funds are legitimate
Example: The mob members were pros and money laundering and used a dry cleaning business as a cover for their shady deals.

Word: Money
Meaning: coins or bills used as a way to pay for goods and services or to pay people for working
Example: More money was needed to buy the supplies to build a neighborhood treehouse.

Word: Mongrel
Meaning: any animal resulting from the crossing of different breeds or varieties; especially a dog
Example: The hybrid mongrel was a mixture of several types of breeds of dog.

Word: Monitor
Meaning: to watch something carefully
Example: A second school employee was placed on the bus to monitor the children while they rode.

Word: Monitory
Meaning: giving a warning or reprimand
Example: The monitory note was sent to the school district to reprimand them for their illegal actions.

Word: Monk
Meaning: a man who has withdrawn from the world for religious reasons
Example: When dedicating his life to the Lord; the monk took a vow of both poverty and chastity.

Word: Mono
Meaning: an infectious disease also known as mononucleosis or granular fever and causes a high fever; sore throat; swollen lymph nodes; and exhaustion
Example: After drinking after her infected sibling; the sister was infected with mono and ran an extremely high fever.

Word: Monochromatic
Meaning: dull in color
Example: The bride wanted her wedding color scheme to be monochromatic; with no bright colors to take the attention off of her dress.

Word: Monochrome
Meaning: black and white
Example: Representing her mood; the artist painted her monochrome self-portrait with one shade of blue.

Word: Monocle
Meaning: an optical lens made for improving vision in a single eye
Example: The cartoon character wears a monocle on a cord around his neck so he can easily increase the vision in his nearsighted eye.

Word: Monogamy
Meaning: the condition of having only one spouse or partner
Example: When my husband and I got married; we took a vow of monogamy.

Word: Monogram
Meaning: a design that has at least two interlaced letters; usually a person’s initials
Example: Placing the monogram on her binder; the student loved the way the glittering letters made the plain folder stand out.

Word: Monograph
Meaning: a specialist work of writing on a single subject
Example: The acclaimed psychologist wrote his most famous monograph on the art of manipulation.

Word: Monolingual
Meaning: to know and communicate solely with one language
Example: Living in a monolingual country; Sarah was limited with collaborating with people from other countries since she only spoke English.

Word: Monolithic
Meaning: large in size and challenging to alter 
Example:  Unfortunately there was no way to make the monolithic project smaller.

Word: Monologue
Meaning: a drawn-out speech by a single person that controls a conversation 
Example: Before Ellen greets guests on her show; she always welcomes the audience with a humorous monologue.

Word: Monomania
Meaning: a mental illness characterized by excessive obsessive or concentration on a single thing or idea
Example: Suffering from monomania; the woman was convinced that the Mexican pop star was in love with her even though they had never met.

Word: Monomer
Meaning: becomes a polymer when two similar molecules are joined
Example: In order to study your DNA; each monomer had to come together to form a nucleotide in the double helix structure of your DNA.

Word: Monopoly
Meaning: the state in which one entity or individual dominates an entire industry or market
Example: In the game of Monopoly; players strive to own all the properties of a specific color in order to increase their rental fees.

Word: Monosaccharide
Meaning: sugar that is in its simplest form
Example: If I wanted something sweet; Weight Watchers recommended eating monosaccharide which is found in fruits.

Word: Monosyllabic
Meaning: short responses; consisting of only one syllable
Example: Ancient Chinese words were monosyllabic and easily pronounced since they were so short.

Word: Monotheism
Meaning: the conviction there is only one deity or god
Example: In my church we believe in monotheism; the idea of a solitary god.

Word: Monotone
Meaning: a tone of voice that does not change
Example: The robot speaks in a monotone expression that never alters in pitch.

Word: Monotonous
Meaning: dull; tedious; and repetitious; lacking in variety and interest
Example: Because Marvin was angry at his wife; he gave only monotonous responses to her questions.

Word: Monotony
Meaning: repetition or lack of change that makes something boring
Example: Adding seasoning to the bland stew helped break up the monotony of the dish.

Word: Monsoon
Meaning: a strong wind in the southern portion of Asia and the Indian Ocean that carries a large amount of rain during the summer months
Example: The monsoon has flooded the small town and kept people indoors for most of the summer.

Word: Monster
Meaning: a made-up huge; dreadful animal or beast
Example: When Mary Shelley created her tall; scary monster; it became known as Frankenstein.

Word: Monstrosity
Meaning: a thing that is huge and extremely unattractive
Example: The new hotel is a monstrosity that blocks my view of the beach.

Word: Monstrous
Meaning: huge; enormous
Example: The monstrous elephant trampled through the jungle crushing everything in its path.

Word: Montane
Meaning: residing or belonging to an area with rugged and rolling slopes and a forest-like region
Example: With a montane vegetation; the people living in the rural area knew that they could only produce certain types of crops on such an incline.

Word: Monument
Meaning: a large structure or sculpture that symbolizes a notable person or event
Example: Touring the monument allowed the students to get a true experience of what happened at that battle.

Word: Monumental
Meaning: important; significant
Example: A monumental and historic decision was made by the Supreme Court regarding marriage rights.

Word: Mood
Meaning: disposition; temperament
Example: The worker was so exhausted and irritable that literally anything could cause her mood to plummet.

Word: Moody
Meaning: glum or temperamental feelings
Example: Since the toddler didn’t take a nap today; she was moody for the rest of the evening.

Word: Moon
Meaning: the lunar body that rotates around planets 
Example: Studying the craters on the moon allowed the scientists to get a better idea of how much water could be found on the moon.

Word: Moonlight
Meaning: the beam from the moon 
Example: The only light shining on the street was the moonlight since all the streetlights had been broken.

Word: Moonstruck
Meaning: confused and unable to think/act normally after falling in love
Example: The moonstruck adolescent will do anything he can to keep his teenage love burning strong.

Word: Moor
Meaning: to tie up a ship
Example: There are thousands of yachts that moor at the marina.

Word: Moored
Meaning: to secure a boat to a dock or to an anchor by a cord; cable or chain
Example: Fisherman will usually double check to make sure their boat is moored in their marina so it won’t drift away.

Word: Moose
Meaning: a big animal belonging to the deer family that has hanging fur from his neck plus large antlers 
Example: To show off their kill; the hunter mounted the head of the moose on his wall.

Word: Moot
Meaning: having no real point
Example: Federal legislation will override the states’ concerns and make them moot.

Word: Mope
Meaning: to carry oneself in a depressed; spiritless manner
Example: With her lip poked out; the young girl continued to mope around the house.

Word: Moral
Meaning: a lesson
Example: Parents tell their children the story of The Boy Who Cried Wolf because the moral teaches them not to lie.

Word: Morale
Meaning: the enthusiasm a person or group has about their duties
Example: Since the soldiers have not seen their families in a long time; their morale is at an all-time low.

Word: Moralistic
Meaning: quick to judge others based on a narrow view of what is right and wrong
Example: The moralistic pastor called out members of his congregation for what he saw as sinful behaviors.

Word: Morality 
Meaning: a set of rules that draw the line between what is acceptable and not acceptable in conduct
Example: As a devout Christian; the doctor’s concept of morality prohibited him from having anything to do with the cloning project.

Word: Moralize
Meaning: to express opinions about whether specific actions are good or bad
Example: Aesop wrote fables to moralize; helping parents teach their children right from wrong.

Word: Morass
Meaning: a complicated or confusing situation
Example: Even the smartest lawyer will find it difficult to find a solution for this legal morass.

Word: Moratorium
Meaning: the pausing of an ongoing activity 
Example: An avid fisherman; Billy was upset when he learned of the fishing moratorium.

Word: Morbid
Meaning: associated with subjects that are unpleasant; like death
Example: The boy’s morbid fascination with death led him to collect dead animals.

Word: Morbidity
Meaning: the quality of being unhealthful
Example: Even the hardened criminal squirmed at the morbidity of the crime scene photographs.

Word: Mordacious
Meaning: having an abrasive attitude or using abrasive words
Example: After the young man cut line at the grocery store; the woman had some mordacious words which embarrassed the man.

Word: Mordant
Meaning: having a scathing wit
Example: The mordant mother often used harsh words that made her son cry.

Word: Moreover
Meaning: further
Example: For many small companies; moreover; the ability to purchase cash is limited.

Word: Mores
Meaning: customs and traditions of community
Example: Social mores of the area insisted that men and women who are courting not spend time alone before marriage.

Word: Morgue
Meaning: a building or room where dead bodies are kept before their proper burial or cremation
Example: After the fatal accident; the deceased victim was removed from the vehicle and taken to the morgue until the autopsy took place.

Word: Moribund
Meaning: being in the state of dying
Example: Because the wounded man has lost a great deal of blood; he is moribund and probably will not make it through the night.

Word: Morning
Meaning: the period of time between midnight and noon
Example: Each day; I rise with the sun and start my early morning workout routine.

Word: Moronic
Meaning: foolish or stupid
Example: The man’s moronic statements made no sense to anyone listening to his rant.

Word: Morose
Meaning: feeling sad; in a bad mood; and not wanting to talk to anyone
Example: When her dog died; the little girl was morose for months.

Word: Morosely
Meaning: in an unhappy manner
Example: The dog stared morosely at the front door while waiting for its owner to return.

Word: Morphology
Meaning: the biological study of the size; shape; and structure of animals and plants
Example: Due to its morphology and body makeup; only reproductive ants have wings.

Word: Morsel
Meaning: a small piece of food
Example: Devouring the last morsel of cake; the woman realized that sticking to her diet would be harder than she had anticipated.

Word: Mortal 
Meaning: vulnerable to injury or death
Example: Many teenagers do not believe they are mortal and will often do crazy stunts in hopes of proving they are invincible.

Word: Mortality
Meaning: being subject to death
Example: Questioning his own mortality; the elderly man thought back over the many events of his life.

Word: Mortar
Meaning: a strong bowl used to press or grind a substance into a powder
Example: After the pharmacist used the mortar and pestle to crush the pills; he took the medicine and stirred it into the liquid.

Word: Mortgage
Meaning: a loan given from a financial institution for a person’s property which causes the person to pay it back plus interest
Example: The newly married couple checked the rates on the mortgage to determine how much they would have to pay for their dream home.

Word: Mortician
Meaning: the person who is in charge of a funeral including preparing the deceased body 
Example: Often viewed as a scary job; the mortician actually performs a service that is needed by the community.

Word: Mortification
Meaning: extreme embarrassment and shame
Example: Although Michael never laid a hand on her physically; she had to endure emotional abuse and mortification because of the way he talked to her in front of other people.

Word: Mortify
Meaning: to put someone in the position of being embarrassed
Example: If my mother picks me up from school in her pajamas; she will mortify me in front of my friends.

Word: Mortuary
Meaning: a funeral home or morgue
Example: Embalming several hundred bodies at the mortuary; the funeral worker was an experience funeral director.

Word: Mosaic
Meaning: a hard embellishment that is created by pushing tiny segments of dyed glass or stone into a pliable substance
Example: The little girl was fascinated by the colorful mosaic that comprised the church’s window.

Word: Mosque 
Meaning: a Muslim house of worship
Example: Since we don’t have a mosque in our town; the few Muslims in our community drive to a nearby city to worship.

Word: Mosquito
Meaning: a disease-carrying; flying insect that is found in warm environments and sucks the blood of those it bites
Example: The mosquito buzzed around the room; irritating those trying to enjoy an afternoon siesta.

Word: Moss
Meaning: a small; flowerless green plant that reproduces through spores in wet places
Example: Scientists have proven that algae adapted to life on earth; growing into other plants including green moss.

Word: Most
Meaning: greatest in amount; degree or number; superlative of much or many
Example: After Dan retired from the Army; we decided to move back to our home state where most of our friends and family live.

Word: Mote
Meaning: a tiny piece of something
Example: A small mote of glass entered my foot; so tiny that I wasn’t able to pull it out without tweezers.

Word: Mother
Meaning: the female biological parent of a child
Example: Every mother wants their daughter to grow up to be just like them in every aspect.

Word: Motherhood
Meaning: the state of being a mother to a child
Example: Motherhood proved difficult for the young woman who had little experience with babies before the birth of her son.

Word: Motif
Meaning: a reappearing theme in a creative person’s work or style
Example: Death is the depressing motif that appears in each of the artist’s paintings.

Word: Motility
Meaning: the ability to move around in fluid
Example: Personal lubricants can interfere with sperm motility and hinder sperm from being able to make it to the egg.

Word: Motion
Meaning: the process of moving
Example: Putting the ball into motion; the pitcher prayed that the batter would not make contact.

Word: Motionless
Meaning: to be still or stopped
Example: Once I noticed the motionless man sitting on the park bench; I thought he was asleep.

Word: Motivation
Meaning: the drive someone has for conducting himself or herself in a certain way
Example: Usually the only motivation for teenagers going to school is to socialize with their friends.

Word: Motive
Meaning: a reason; motivation
Example: Although he had no motive to commit the crime; police were sure that the suspect was innocent.

Word: Motive
Meaning: reason; purpose
Example: With several clogged arteries; the unhealthy man had a serious motive to lose weight and get fit.

Word: Motley
Meaning: made up of strikingly different components
Example: The motley group of job applicants included a retired teacher; a recently released convict; and a sixteen-year-old girl.

Word: Motor
Meaning: a piece of equipment that is powered by ignition or a form of electricity in order to operate a machine 
Example: Mechanics know exactly how to take apart a motor and put it back together in a matter of minutes.

Word: Mottled 
Meaning: stained with spots or patches
Example: The mottled lizard with its brown and green spots easily blended in with the fallen leaves.

Word: Motto
Meaning: a motto is a phrase about values and beliefs
Example: The personal trainer’s motto is; “No pain; no gain; remain the same”.

Word: Moue
Meaning: a pouty expression made with the lips to show annoyance or disapproval
Example: Giving a lip-quivering moue; the spoiled girl was able to get her way with her parents.

Word: Mould
Meaning: a hollow container that gives shape to a liquid poured into it once it has cooled or is frozen
Example: I forgot to spray the mould with oil; causing the waffle batter to stick to the frame while cooking.

Word: Mound
Meaning: an elevated heap or pile
Example: Rolling down the steep mound; the children laughed as they turned over on the dirt.

Word: Mount
Meaning: to climb or get on something
Example: Trying to mount the horse; the nervous rider fell of several times before actually getting on.

Word: Mountain
Meaning: an area of elevated land that rises very high above the land around it
Example: As an experience mountain climber; the explorer knew the importance of pacing yourself on a long trek up.

Word: Mountainous
Meaning: filled with many mountains
Example: The mountainous area is so hilly; its tall peaks making it virtually uninhabitable.

Word: Mountebank
Meaning: an individual who tricks others
Example: The mountebank made his living by conning elderly widows out of their life savings.

Word: Mourn
Meaning: to grieve and be extremely saddened by a loss
Example: It has been years since her mother’s death; but Debra continues to mourn her loss.

Word: Mournful
Meaning: filled with grief or sadness
Example: The mournful sounds emerging from the funeral parlor made me very sad indeed.

Word: Mourning
Meaning: mourning means a time to show deep sorrow
Example: At the funeral; the crowd was mourning and celebrating the loss and life of a loved one.

Word: Mouse
Meaning: a mouse is a small rodent
Example: I wasn’t sure if I saw the cat eat a rat or a mouse.

Word: Mouth
Meaning: a mouth is the opening at the lower part of the face
Example: Your hands could be contaminated so please don’t touch your mouth until you wash them.

Word: Mouthful
Meaning: a long or complex amount of words that is difficult to say
Example: My friend challenged me to say a tongue twister three times fast; but it was such a mouthful that I couldn’t manage it.

Word: Move
Meaning: move means relocate
Example: Instead of standing still in line; the children chose to dance and move the entire time.

Word: Movement
Meaning: the process of changing places or positions
Example: Sudden movement in the back of the house sent the dogs barking and startled their sleeping owner.

Word: Movement
Meaning: the act of changing one’s location through motion
Example: The science teacher taught the students that the back and forth movement of the water was called tides.

Word: Movie
Meaning: a recording of movie images that tells a story
Example: The movie theater plays several new films a week while retiring older ones.

Word: Mown
Meaning: having had the grass cut down in a yard or field
Example: My neighbor’s tall grass has not been mown in over three months!

Word: Moxie
Meaning: the ability to face challenges with a courageous and determined attitude
Example: The mountain climber proved his moxie by refusing to give up when faced with another dangerous peak.

Word: Much
Meaning: a great amount
Example: Much of the island is completely covered by forests; with only a few areas being developed.

Word: Muck
Meaning: muck is dirt or waste
Example: Our old truck was filthy since it was covered with gravel; muck; and dirt.

Word: Muckraker
Meaning: a person who spreads damaging rumors about another individual; generally for political gain
Example: Although the journalist likes to think of himself as a do-gooder; he is actually a muckraker who writes false stories about politicians.

Word: Muddle 
Meaning: to mess up or make confusing
Example: As the hostile driver continued to muddle the sobriety test; the police officer reached for his handcuffs.

Word: Mudslinging
Meaning: the use of insults and accusations as a way of tarnishing someone’s reputation
Example: Because of their constant mudslinging; both political candidates were known as slanderers.

Word: Muffle
Meaning: to deaden sound by covering or wrapping
Example: Example sentences for Fiduciary. Read this page and learn how to use Fiduciary in a sentence.

Word: Mug
Meaning: a mug is a large round cup
Example: On a cold winter day; I sipped the mug of hot chocolate as I watched my favorite movie.

Word: Mugwump
Meaning: a term for 1884 Republicans who voted for the Democratic candidate (Grover Cleveland) over their own party candidate who they viewed as corrup
Example: Independent and liberal; the mugwump refused to vote Republican in the 1884 election and submitted his ballot for Cleveland instead.

Word: Mulatto
Meaning: an individual of black and white descent
Example: The mulatto girl has a black mother and a white father.

Word: Mulct
Meaning: the extort money from someone
Example: The unethical reporter managed to mulct $500;000 from the corrupt police department.

Word: Mule
Meaning: a carrier of things for someone else
Example: As a mule for the drug cartel; the shady man was paid to carry narcotics into the United States.

Word: Muliebrity
Meaning: womanly qualities; femininity 
Example: The sexy songstress’s muliebrity set her apart from the less feminine women in the club.

Word: Mull
Meaning: to think about something deeply and for a long period of time
Example: As she continued to mull over the long list of potential performers; the entertainment director wondered if she should just feature someone internally.

Word: Multicellular
Meaning: being complex with many different cells
Example: The transition to multicellular life from single celled organisms has been of interest to scientists for many years.

Word: Multicultural
Meaning: diverse
Example: The multicultural fair had booths from many different countries; each displaying ethnic food and wares.

Word: Multifarious
Meaning: having great variety; numerous
Example: Coming from a small town of only four hundred residents; Jonas was shocked by the millions of people who made up the multifarious population of the big city.

Word: Multifold
Meaning: numerous; varied
Example: Interest in the robotics competition was multifold; with many different groups applying for entry.

Word: Multilateral
Meaning: including many sides or parties
Example: The multilateral lender was developed by several different countries and provides financing for national development.

Word: Multilingual
Meaning: using several different languages
Example: Many West Africans are multilingual; speaking their tribe language; English; as well as Pidgin English.

Word: Multimedia
Meaning: technology that uses a variety of different types of media (sound; audio; video; etc.) to express ideas
Example: The multimedia presentation showed the audience images of what the Titanic looked like while playing clips of actual interviews.

Word: Multinational
Meaning: multinational means relating to multiple nations
Example: Britain and the United Stated states are a powerful multinational military force against terrorism.

Word: Multiple
Meaning: many; numerous
Example: Multiple survivor accounts were recorded after the Titanic sinking of 1912.

Word: Multiplicity
Meaning: a large number or variety
Example: The cruise ship had a multiplicity of staterooms; with at least 200 on each floor.

Word: Multiply
Meaning: to increase
Example: After water was added to the gremlins; the amount of creatures in the house continued to multiply.

Word: Multipurpose
Meaning: serving several different functions
Example: The multipurpose room served as both an emergency shelter and a meeting room for volunteer events.

Word: Multitask
Meaning: to handle multiple tasks at once
Example: Sure; I can multitask. I can eat breakfast and think about lunch at the same time.

Word: Multitude
Meaning: a large number of persons
Example: A multitude of people lined up to watch their favorite celebrities walk into the movie premiere.

Word: Multitudinous
Meaning: a huge amount
Example: Because Teresa is a very attractive woman; she receives multitudinous messages through the dating website.

Word: Multiverse
Meaning: a hypothetical space or realm consisting of more than one universe
Example: Steven Hawking insisted that we live in a multiverse of many different worlds.

Word: Mum
Meaning: mute; silent
Example: Staying mum for the time being; the man thought it best he not discuss his plans with anyone else.

Word: Mumble
Meaning: to mutter something in a low tone so that it cannot be understood
Example: My little brother will mumble his grievances under his breath but never tell me when I make him angry.

Word: Mumblecore
Meaning: a genre of low-budget narrative film that focuses on the intimate lives of young adult characters using dialogue and on professional actors
Example: The mumblecore filmmakers create low-budget films focus on the lives of young lovers.

Word: Mummification
Meaning: the process of embalming and wrapping a dead body
Example: Ancient Egyptians used mummification as a way to preserve the bodies of their ancestors.

Word: Mumps
Meaning: a contagious viral disease that causes the glands in the face to swell
Example: Because the child’s cheeks were swollen like a chipmunk; the doctor knew that she probably had a viral case of the mumps.

Word: Mumpsimus
Meaning: a person who clings to a tradition or custom that is practiced even though it has been prove to be irrational
Example: The mumpsimus continued to mispronounce the word ‘library’ even when he was corrected several times.

Word: Munch
Meaning: to chew or crunch on food
Example: Even when I’m not starving; I find myself wanting to munch on candy and other sweets.

Word: Mundane
Meaning: Boring; dull; and uninteresting
Example: The restaurant should spice up their menu and replace the dull and mundane dishes.

Word: Munge
Meaning: an IT slang term meaning to convert data from one form to another
Example: When the tech starts to munge data; he transforms and maps data from one raw data form into another format.

Word: Municipal
Meaning: related to a town or governing body
Example: Municipal elections are held at the city court house once every four years.

Word: Municipality
Meaning: a town that has its own local lawmaking body
Example: Citizens knew that living in the municipality meant they would need to vote within this jurisdiction since they acted as their own city.

Word: Munificent
Meaning: very generous
Example: The wealthy actor always gives the members of his staff munificent appreciation gifts.

Word: Munitions
Meaning: weapons and ammunition used in a war
Example: Hiding a large stash of munitions within the tank; the army proceeded up the hill.

Word: Murder
Meaning: murder means to kill
Example: The murder happened on 75th street; and they had to move the body to investigate it.

Word: Murky
Meaning: dark and gloomy
Example: The frightened little boy refused to walk with his friends through the murky forest.

Word: Murmur 
Meaning: to express something in a soft tone or a soft sound; often comforting in nature
Example: The twins will often murmur to each other to keep their thoughts private.

Word: Murmured
Meaning: whispered
Example: I could not hear the words; she just murmured a lot.‎

Word: Muscle
Meaning: muscle is a fibrous tissue that causes movement
Example: Each muscle in the human body serves multiple purposes of movement and protection.

Word: Muscular
Meaning: having well-developed muscles
Example: Muscular body builders paraded the stage; showing off their brawn to the judges.

Word: Muse
Meaning: something or someone that inspires
Example: The model was the artist’s muse for his famous sculpture.

Word: Museum
Meaning: a building in which artistic; historical; or scientific objects are stored and exhibited
Example: A new exhibit at the museum displayed hundreds of remains and pictures of extinct plants and animals from around the world.

Word: Mushy
Meaning: having a soggy and squashy consistency 
Example: After cooking the peas for too long in a crockpot; the mushy vegetable was too soft to be delicious.

Word: Music
Meaning: a form of art that combines vocal or instrumental sounds to create a composition
Example: Guests at the house party grooved to music booming out of the stereo system.

Word: Musical
Meaning: melodic or tuneful
Example: The young woman’s musical ability shined through in her singing performance.

Word: Musicality
Meaning: musical talent
Example: The Broadway play earned high marks for musicality since many of the songs were top hits.

Word: Musically
Meaning: relating to music
Example: Being musically inclined; the dwarves liked to whistle a tune while they worked in the mines.

Word: Musician
Meaning: someone who plays a musical instrument
Example: Each musician took the stage and began to play the instruments in unison.

Word: Musing
Meaning: a thought or reflection
Example: As I started to jot down a musing on my notepad; my thoughts were cut short by the ringing of the telephone.

Word: Musk
Meaning: a substance with a strong; sweet smell that is used to make perfume and other products
Example: Many people who wear the sweet-smelling body spray don’t realize that the musk scent comes from the anal gland of a deer.

Word: Musket
Meaning: a heavy; muzzle-loading firearm that was used in the past wars
Example: After loading his musket; the Civil War soldier hid in the woods and waited for the signal to fire.

Word: Muslim
Meaning: a follower of the religion of Islam
Example: The Muslim was a follower of Islam; one of the three major monotheistic world religions.

Word: Mussel
Meaning: a mussel is an edible clam like animal
Example: The expensive mussel was the top item at the seafood restaurant near the rocky docks.

Word: Mustache
Meaning: a mustache is a strip of hair above the upper lip
Example: My sociology professor was drinking a sports drink that put a red stain on his mustache.

Word: Muster
Meaning: to gather collectively
Example: Before the cruise ship departs; passengers are required to muster at a specified station for a safety briefing.

Word: Musty
Meaning: exhibiting a stale odor
Example: The musty odor of the wet towel made the bathroom smell unpleasant.

Word: Mutability
Meaning: the ability to be altered
Example: With the mutability of my work schedule; I’m not sure I’ll be able to attend the concert.

Word: Mutable
Meaning: able to be altered 
Example: Because our emotions are mutable; they are subject to change often.

Word: Mutant
Meaning: mutant means something that had transformed into something other than it was
Example: The radioactive spill caused a small dog to transform into a giant three-headed mutant.

Word: Mutation
Meaning: a significant genetic change
Example: A new vaccination had to be created for a mutation of the antigen.

Word: Muted
Meaning: muted means to silence something
Example: The muted TV allowed for quiet conversation between the guests.

Word: Mutely
Meaning: silently; without speaking
Example: The shy wallflower stood mutely in a corner during the junior high dance.

Word: Mutilate
Meaning: to permanently disfigure something; usually by cutting or removing parts
Example: It is hard to believe that parents in some cultures mutilate their daughter’s genitals through religious-based surgeries.

Word: Mutilation
Meaning: disfigurement or defacement of a person or object
Example: Mutilation of the slave’s back and face occurred when the plantation owner ordered 40 lashes.

Word: Mutinous
Meaning: not following orders; rebelling against authority
Example: Can you believe the bodyguard was the head of the mutinous plot to kill the king?

Word: Mutiny
Meaning: an organized revolt against those in power
Example: Dissatisfied voters will mutiny against the current president by voting for whoever runs against him in the next election.

Word: Mutter
Meaning: to speak under one's breath; usually in an angry way
Example: As he walked away to do his chores; his mother heard him mutter under his breath.

Word: Mutton
Meaning: the meat of a domestic sheep
Example: While a lot of people like chicken; I personally prefer mutton; which we get from the lambs we take care of.

Word: Mutual
Meaning: shared; common
Example: The husband and wife came to a mutual agreement that she would drive the new car and he would drive the older one.

Word: Mutualism
Meaning: a connection between two plants or animals where each of them profits from the connection
Example: Since the bird would scare off the flies on the horse and the horse would protect the bird; this mutualism lasted for many years between these two animals.

Word: Mutuality
Meaning: mutual dependence or reciprocity
Example: The contract depends on the parties’ mutuality and if they can agree on the terms.

Word: Mutually
Meaning: felt or done by two or more people in the same group
Example: After years of unhappiness; the couple mutually agreed to a divorce.

Word: Muzzle
Meaning: the projecting snout of an animal
Example: The veterinarian wrapped a towel around the dog’s muzzle to stop it from biting.

Word: Myocardial
Meaning: relating to the muscular tissue of the heart
Example: Since diabetes can damage the heart; it increases the risk of a myocardial infraction.

Word: Myopia
Meaning: a restrictive view or an absence of forethought
Example: My husband’s myopia prevents him from being able to see value in anyone else’s opinion.

Word: Myopic
Meaning: particularly biased in one direction
Example: If you only question one race of people in your survey; your responses will be myopic.

Word: Myriad
Meaning: of an indefinite large number 
Example: Kelly and Clint discuss myriad topics on their talk show.

Word: Myrmidon
Meaning: a person who does whatever his leader says
Example: Under the watchful eye of their superior military leader; every myrmidon followed his first request.

Word: Mysterious
Meaning: mysterious means difficult to understand
Example: Solving the crime was mysterious because the detectives were missing crucial evidence.

Word: Mystery
Meaning: something secret or unexplainable;an unknown
Example: The police are still trying to figure out the mystery of the missing girl who disappeared with her father three months ago and neither one has been found.

Word: Mystic
Meaning: spiritualist or shaman
Example: A mystic traveled around the village telling peoples fortunes and offering cures to curses.

Word: Mysticism
Meaning: the idea divine truth can be found through profound meditation
Example: The cult leader emphasized mysticism through meditation as the only means of entering heaven.

Word: Mystified
Meaning: puzzled or confused
Example: Scientists have been mystified for the longest time about how to prevent cancer from spreading.

Word: Mystique
Meaning: the aura of intrigue that surrounds a person or thing
Example: The maiden has a mystique that fascinates men of all ages.

Word: Myth
Meaning: a widely held belief that is actually untrue
Example: The myth that holding your laptop in your lap will make you sterile is a product of media sensationalism.

Word: Mythical
Meaning: to be similar or like something from a myth
Example: After reading about the mythical creature; the young child was not scared because many events in the story could not have happened.

Word: Mythology
Meaning: a group of stories from an area or country’s people and it usually includes gods or goddesses
Example: Students learned about the dangerous creatures while studying Greek mythology in their literature class.

Word: Mythomane
Meaning: a person with a strong or irresistible propensity for fantasizing; lying; or exaggerating 
Example: The mythomane always thought it was easier to tell a lie than the truth.

Word: Nabob
Meaning: a rich and influential person
Example: When the nabob walked into the meeting; everyone stood to show respect to him.

Word: Nadir
Meaning: point of greatest adversity or despair; all-time low; rock-bottom
Example: Even though we thought we had reached our nadir and would fail to meet the project deadline; we were still able to complete the work on time.

Word: Nag
Meaning: to remind or complain to someone in annoying way over trivial complaints
Example: I have to nag at my children to clean up their rooms daily.

Word: Naive
Meaning: having or showing a lack of experience or knowledge
Example: The naive girl believed she could get pregnant by kissing.

Word: Name-calling
Meaning: abusive language or insults
Example: The toddlers kept calling each other “stupid;” so their mother put them in time out for their name-calling.

Word: Namely
Meaning: especially or particularly
Example: Over the last six decades; several technological innovations have changed how we communicate; namely the Internet and the smartphone.

Word: Namesake
Meaning: an individual or thing that is named after another person or thing
Example: My husband shares his father’s name; and as such; he is his namesake.

Word: Nano
Meaning: a prefix added to a word to denote that is very small
Example: The nanosensors on the machine are so small they can barely be detected.

Word: Naphtha
Meaning: a flammable oil that is used as a solvent and as an ingredient in gasoline
Example: Naphtha is an oily substance that is produced as part of the oil refining process.

Word: Narcissistic
Meaning: obsessed with one’s importance and/or physical appearance.
Example: The narcissistic teenager cannot walk more than fifty feet without checking her appearance in her pocket mirror.

Word: Narrate
Meaning: to give a spoken or written account of events
Example: The old storyteller in our village is a survivor of a war long past; and he often narrates the events of his final battle.

Word: Narration
Meaning: a commentary given with a broadcast of some sort
Example: Many movies have a piece of narration in the beginning to provide the audience with information about the setting.

Word: Narrative
Meaning: a tale that is written or spoken
Example: The narrative is a fairytale that tells the story of a poor orphan who becomes a princess.

Word: Narrow-minded
Meaning: bigoted and not tolerant of other people’s viewpoints
Example: The narrow-minded cop truly believed only Hispanics commit serious crimes.

Word: Narrow
Meaning: a smaller than usual amount of space
Example: The space between the cars was so narrow that she had to hold the door and squeeze through the tiny opening to avoid hitting the other car.

Word: Nary
Meaning: not a single one
Example: Unfortunately; nary a restaurant was open at two o’clock in the morning.

Word: Nascence
Meaning: the initial start of something that leads to a bigger idea or action
Example: During the nascence of portable computers; laptops that were over twenty pounds were considered lightweight and advanced technology.

Word: Nascent
Meaning: recently formed or started
Example: Online dating has gone from a nascent idea to an established concept that helps millions of people find love.

Word: Nastiness
Meaning: quality of being gross; dirty; and generally unpleasant
Example: The nastiness of the cheap hotel room was evidenced by the rat droppings; bed bugs; and filthy carpet.

Word: Nasty
Meaning: something foul or horrid that can leave one disgusted
Example: The medicine left a nasty taste in the toddler’s mouth; causing her to spit it out.

Word: Natal
Meaning: associated with a birth
Example: I consider Smithfield to be my natal home because I was born there thirty years ago.

Word: Nation
Meaning: a group of people inhabiting a particular territory and united by common characteristics such as descent; culture; or language
Example: The nation of Germany is unified by the language that the common populace speaks; as well as their history and culture.

Word: National
Meaning: related or common to a whole country
Example: The national chain has retail stores in every state in the U.S.A.

Word: Nationalism
Meaning: such devotion to a country that other nations pale in comparison 
Example: During the war; the rising tide of nationalism resulted in people buying only American-made products.

Word: Nationality
Meaning: the position usually citizenship of someone or something being a part of a nation
Example: After realizing that the young woman’s nationality was Israeli since she came from Israel; he was assumed that her ethnicity was Jewish.

Word: Native
Meaning: of or relating to the place where you were born
Example: The Latin was not raised in his native country; which is why we believed that he did not possess their mannerisms.

Word: Nativism
Meaning: the practice of giving preference to the native residents of an area
Example: Nativism is observed by individuals who believe their culture is superior to other cultures.

Word: Nativity
Meaning: birth; specifically the birth of Jesus Christ
Example: During the nativity play; the innkeeper told Jesus’s parents that there was no room for them on the night of his birth.

Word: Natural resources
Meaning: materials or substances such as minerals; forests; water; and fertile land that occur in nature and can be used for economic gain 
Example: According to the Environmental Protection Agency; last year humans consumed many more natural resources that the earth could renew.

Word: Natural selection
Meaning: the process by which animals and plants that can adapt to changes in their environment are able to survive and reproduce while those that can't adapt die off
Example: Our professor was attempting to explain natural selection by telling us that weak die off and the strong survive.

Word: Natural
Meaning: something organic derived from nature that is raw and pure; not having been treated or processed
Example: Natural honey is one of the only raw and pure foods that never goes bad.

Word: Naturalist
Meaning: someone who studies life and nature
Example: While wandering in the forest; a naturalist was walking a trail to determine if there were any new birds in the area.

Word: Naturalization
Meaning: the process by which a foreign individual is awarded citizenship
Example: In order to become a citizen; Alberto will have to go through the process of naturalization.

Word: Naturally
Meaning: to happen on its own; without help
Example: Sarah didn’t have to put hot rollers in her hair in the morning because she had naturally curly hair already.

Word: Nature
Meaning: the world of the environment of plants and animals
Example: The refreshing nature hike was just what I needed to become energized and happy.

Word: Naught 
Meaning: not anything
Example: Because Kurt’s negotiating skills amount to naught; we were not able to get a price reduction on the car.

Word: Naught
Meaning: nothing
Example: Everything I wrote was for naught when my computer crashed.

Word: Naughty
Meaning: to behave poorly
Example: At Christmas time; Santa will ask children if they have been naughty or nice during the year.

Word: Nausea
Meaning: queasiness which sometimes leads to throwing up
Example: Spinning around in circles for thirty minutes made the girl have nausea in her stomach.

Word: Nauseating
Meaning: sickening and repulsive
Example: After eating the moldy fruit; the child had a nauseating feeling in her stomach resulting in her throwing up.

Word: Nauseous
Meaning: a sick queasy feeling
Example: Due to Kate’s nauseous feeling during the past few mornings; it became obvious that she was pregnant.

Word: Nautical
Meaning: relating to or involving ships or shipping or navigation or seamen
Example: We sailed hundreds of nautical miles with no land in sight.

Word: Navel
Meaning: bellybutton
Example: Drawing in her navel; the pudgy woman tried to make her stomach look thinner in the mirror.

Word: Navigable
Meaning: controllable or maneuverable
Example: Tests were done on the new Boeing plane to determine if it was navigable in the air at high altitudes.

Word: Navigate
Meaning: to direct a route
Example: Christopher Columbus would navigate his ship across the Atlantic Ocean to an unknown land.

Word: Navigation
Meaning: the procedure that one uses to track a course
Example: Once the plans for the navigation to get to the secret hideaway were in place; the team of detectives quickly drove to find the kidnapped child.

Word: Navigator
Meaning: the pilot or director of a vessel in the land; water or air
Example: When the fishing boat capsized; the navigator was blamed for steering the boat into an oncoming storm.

Word: Navy
Meaning: a country’s armed service using ships and boats
Example: During the war; the ships from the country’s navy were sent out to defend against the attack on their land.

Word: Nay
Meaning: not at all or nope
Example: When Congress decided to vote; the vice president asked the congressman to say yea if they are in favor of the issue or nay if they are not.

Word: Nazism
Meaning: the theories and processes of the Nazis
Example: Using the ideologies of Nazism from the 1930s; the Ku Klux Klan now show their racist beliefs through their violent actions.

Word: Near
Meaning: the small span between two objects or things 
Example: The only reason Ginger moved near the mall was so she could go shopping frequently.

Word: Nearby
Meaning: to be close by to something
Example: Since Walmart was nearby; we ran to the store to quickly purchase the costume for the play.

Word: Nearer
Meaning: closer or not as far away
Example: The fan tried to draw nearer to the musician; but the star’s security blocked the stage.

Word: Nearly
Meaning: approximately or about
Example: Ms. Fisher allowed her son to go play outside since he was nearly finished with his homework.

Word: Neat
Meaning: orderly; arranged
Example: Each neat row of corn in the farmer’s field was planted efficiently for a quick harvest.

Word: Neat
Meaning: tidy and well-ordered
Example: A neat stack of post it notes sat in a pile on the accountant’s desk.

Word: Neatly
Meaning: in a tidy or organized way
Example: Stacking the papers neatly; the assistant attempted to organize the doctor’s cluttered desk.

Word: Neatness
Meaning: the act of being tidy and orderly
Example: Alan suffered from Obsessive Compulsive Disorder due to his desire to have extreme neatness in the house at all times.

Word: Nebbish
Meaning: one who is nervous and lacks confidence and courage; especially in making decisions and plans; in discussions; debates; arguments; and confrontations; and in taking responsibility
Example: The nebbish refuses to take responsibility for his actions; always too afraid to admit that he made a mistake.

Word: Nebula
Meaning: a space cloud consisting of gas or dust
Example: I love to venture out into the open fields on a clear night and gawk at every galaxy and nebula that my naked eyes can detect.

Word: Nebulous
Meaning: Unclear; vague; not clearly defined
Example: It was not difficult to realize her answer to the question was nebulous.

Word: Necessarily
Meaning: automatically; certainly
Example: Putting down that you are a felon won’t necessarily stop you from getting the job; but it probably won’t help either.

Word: Necessary
Meaning: being required or vital
Example: For the chocolate cake; the necessary ingredients included flour; eggs; butter and cocoa.

Word: Necessitate
Meaning: to make essential as a result of something
Example: The heavy rain will necessitate the use of an umbrella.

Word: Necessities
Meaning: needs or essential supplies
Example: Even though the spoiled wife believed that a sports car and lots of money were the necessities of life; she could have lived with a regular sedan.

Word: Necessitous
Meaning: deprived and poverty-stricken
Example: The necessitous circumstances surrounding the flood victims became evidence when we saw all of the destruction.

Word: Necessity
Meaning: to be essential or vital
Example: Water is a necessity of life because failure to drink water in three days will cause death.

Word: Necrology
Meaning: a biographical description of a person who has recently died
Example: My grandmother’s necrology was posted online so that everyone could see what a wonderful person she was.

Word: Necromancy
Meaning: the act of communicating with spirits of deceased individuals
Example: When Maggie’s husband died; she visited a psychic who claimed she could use necromancy to talk to deceased persons.

Word: Necrosis
Meaning: the complete deterioration of a bodily organ
Example: Cancer first caused the necrosis of the liver which led to the liver failing to produce proteins used in coagulating the blood.

Word: Nectar
Meaning: the sweet liquid produced from certain plants and flowers that bees turn into honey
Example: Instead of acquiring the nectar from the plant; the farmers knew to wait until the bumblebees would convert it into honey.

Word: Nee
Meaning: born with this name usually before getting married
Example: Harriet Tubman; nee Araminta Ross; helped slaves escape to the North using the Underground Railroad.

Word: Needle
Meaning: a long thin sharp pointy device that holds thread and is used for stitching fabric
Example: When I tore my shirt; my friend grabbed a needle and thread in order to sew the material back together.

Word: Needless
Meaning: not essential or wanted
Example: Usually; the child spoke needless words simply because he was used to babbling all day about random things.

Word: Nefarious
Meaning: very evil and wicked
Example: How nefarious of you to fling dog crap on my car!

Word: Negate
Meaning: to cause something to be ineffective; to nullify
Example: Be careful when shopping because you do not want unnecessary purchases to negate the value of the coupons you are using.

Word: Negative
Meaning: a gloomy outlook on something
Example: Teenagers usually have negative attitudes toward adults because they think they know everything.

Word: Negative
Meaning: focused on what is bad; harmful; or lacking
Example: Negative effects of the medicine have stopped many patients from taking it.

Word: Neglect
Meaning: to abandon or ignore
Example: When you have children and work a full-time job; you may neglect your appearance because it is not important anymore.

Word: Negligence
Meaning: neglect; inattention
Example: The parent’s negligence resulted in their children being taken from their care and placed in a safer home.

Word: Negligent
Meaning: careless; irresponsible
Example: I felt negligent for leaving Jean’s toddler alone in the car.

Word: Negligible
Meaning: too small to be of importance
Example: Since the price difference between the generic item and the brand item is negligible; I will buy the brand product.

Word: Negotiable
Meaning: capable of being bargained or bartered with
Example: Even though the house was priced very low; the potential buyers still believe the price was negotiable.

Word: Negotiate
Meaning: to try to reach an agreement or come to terms
Example: We sat down to negotiate a deal that would satisfy everyone.

Word: Neigh
Meaning: the sound a horse makes
Example: Whenever anyone would get close to the fence; the horse would neigh to get the attention of its master.

Word: Neighbor
Meaning: a person who resides nearby
Example: While baking a cake; I needed to ask my neighbor for sugar since I had just run out.

Word: Neighborhood
Meaning: an area where people live close together
Example: The single woman became frightened when a prowler was spotted in her neighborhood looking in everyone’s houses.

Word: Nemesis
Meaning: an enemy who is constantly causing problems 
Example: Kara was not happy when her nemesis won the contest.

Word: Neoclassical
Meaning: in the manner of Ancient Greek or Romans
Example: Neoclassical artists model their paintings off of Ancient Greek and Roman masterpieces.

Word: Neolithic
Meaning: relating to a time known as the New Stone Age in which polished stone tools; pottery; weaving; stock rearing; and agriculture became prominent
Example: The village dwellings are adobe style and were crafted from clay and water.

Word: Neolithic
Meaning: the last part of the Stone Age in which agricultural and technological elements began to advance
Example: The village is home to a Neolithic dig site where late Stone Age pieces have been discovered.

Word: Neologism
Meaning: a new term or phrase recently added to a person or group’s vocabulary
Example: The neologism became so popular it was added to most dictionaries.

Word: Neonatal
Meaning: relating to a newborn baby
Example: Positive neonatal outcomes were much more positive for babies whose mothers did not smoke during pregnancy.

Word: Neophyte
Meaning: someone who is just learning to do something
Example: Because I have very little computer experience; I am a neophyte when it comes to working with most software programs.

Word: Nepenthe
Meaning: a fictional potion said to have been used by the ancient people to erase the memory of pain or sorrow
Example: To help her chase away all of her sorrow; Polydamna gave Helen a nepenthe potion.

Word: Nephew
Meaning: a son of one's brother or sister
Example: My sister enjoys keeping her nephew in the afternoons and it helps me get work done as well.

Word: Nepotism
Meaning: the act of giving opportunities to others simply because of a personal relationship 
Example: Since George is an idiot everyone knows his father hired him because of nepotism.

Word: Nerve
Meaning: courage; steadfastness
Example: Gathering the nerve to ask the young lady to dance; the shy wallflower ventured away from the corner and marched towards the center of the dance floor.

Word: Nerves
Meaning: a person’s mental state or perceived source of emotional control
Example: The anxious player’s nerves were on edge as he waited to see if he would be drafted in the first round.

Word: Nervous breakdown
Meaning: a period of mental illness that results from depression; stress; or anxiety
Example: After finding out that her husband was having an affair; the upset wife had a nervous breakdown and ended up in the mental hospital.

Word: Nervous wreck
Meaning: a person who is extremely anxious or worried about something
Example: Because she is so afraid of fish; Demi was a nervous wreck while swimming in the ocean.

Word: Nervous
Meaning: anxious; worried
Example: The bank teller could tell that the uneasy robber was nervous by the way his hand shook as he brandished his weapon.

Word: Nervously
Meaning: anxiously; apprehensively
Example: Smiling nervously; the interviewee tried not to let her anxiety show.

Word: Nervousness
Meaning: anxiety; edginess
Example: During dinner; the gentleman could sense his date’s nervousness as she anxiously tapped her fingers on the table.

Word: Nescience
Meaning: unawareness or ignorance
Example: Because of a nescience of allergic reactions; many people with allergies don’t carry the proper emergency medicines.

Word: Nestle
Meaning: to snuggle or cuddle something
Example: The bear cub’s mother began to nestle him closer as they drifted off to sleep.

Word: Net Force
Meaning: the total amount of force exerted on an object
Example: If you are pushing a cart and there is no resistance; the force you are exerting on that cart is the net force.

Word: Net
Meaning: a piece of mesh fabric used for as specific purpose (usually to catch animals or sports balls.)
Example: Positioning the net in the water; the fisherman prepared to catch a fish with one swift swoop.

Word: Nether
Meaning: rear; posterior
Example: An anatomy ultrasound scan of the fetus’s nether regions showed that he is definitely all boy.

Word: Nettle
Meaning: to cause someone to become annoyed or angry
Example: My brother will often nettle me by reading my diary.

Word: Nettlesome
Meaning: irritating; annoying
Example: Asking another nettlesome question; the child irritated her mother to no end.

Word: Network
Meaning: a system or association
Example: Our insurance will only pay for treatment if you use a doctor that is in their network of providers.

Word: Neural
Meaning: relating to the nervous system
Example: Nerves in the brain of mice brains were examined to determine what kind of neural response was released after food was given.

Word: Neuralgia
Meaning: pain in a nerve pathway
Example: Neuralgia is a form of chronic nerve pain that is hard for doctors to understand and diagnose.

Word: Neurasthenic
Meaning: a now obsolete psychiatric symptom that is more commonly known as chronic fatigue syndrome and is characterized by extreme mental and physical exhaustion
Example: Early 19th century insane asylums were filled with people showing neurasthenic symptoms; simply exhausted and in need of rest.

Word: Neurological
Meaning: related to the science of the nerves and nervous system
Example: Neurological problems related to the brain’s nerve endings were diagnosed by the patient’s physician.

Word: Neurologist
Meaning: a physician that deals with deals with the nervous system and the diseases that affect it
Example: Only one neurologist was available to talk to the patient’s family after he severely injured the nerves in his hand.

Word: Neurology
Meaning: the branch of medicine that deals with the nervous system and the diseases that affect it
Example: The physician decided to specialize in neurology since the study of the central nervous system piqued her interest.

Word: Neuromuscular
Meaning: relating to both the nerves and muscles
Example: Neuromuscular damage to the spinal cord nerves and surrounding muscles left the diver unable to move.

Word: Neuroscience
Meaning: the scientific study of the nervous system and the brain
Example: The field of neuroscience is fairly new; with the study of the brain and the body’s still being rather contemporary.

Word: Neurotic
Meaning: overly anxious; unstable
Example: Sally is a neurotic person who is often moody.

Word: Neutral
Meaning: unbiased; impartial
Example: Being neutral in the matter; I refused to take sides with either my brother or my sister.

Word: Neutrality
Meaning: the state or quality of being neutral; state of taking no part on either side
Example: Neutrality was impossible when choosing to write a persuasive speech.

Word: Neutralize
Meaning: to make unsuccessful or ineffective
Example: A glass of milk will help neutralize the spicy contents in my stomach.

Word: Neutron
Meaning: a particle in a nucleus; made of quarks; that lacks an electric charge and has a mass comparable to the mass of a proton
Example: Unlike a proton which has a positive charge; a neutron doesn’t have any charge.

Word: Nevertheless
Meaning: yet; however
Example: A wage assignment was issued; nevertheless; a payment has not been made.

Word: New-hire
Meaning: an employee who was recently hired for a job
Example: The manager requested that the new-hire take a drug test before reporting to his newly assigned post.

Word: Newfangled
Meaning: contemporary; modern
Example: Newfangled cell phone cameras have all put replaced the handheld Polaroids of the past.

Word: Newness
Meaning: the quality of being new or original
Example: The shiny diamond’s newness quickly wore off; and the woman returned the impulsive purchase to the jeweler.

Word: Newscast
Meaning: a news broadcast
Example: Expressing their condolences beforehand; reporters on the ten o’clock newscast confirmed that remains of the missing scuba diver had been discovered.

Word: Newton
Meaning: the Standard International unit of force
Example: Force is a quantity that is measured by a metric unit known as a newton.

Word: Next
Meaning: following; subsequent
Example: The next day; the oracle’s prediction came true when a golden-haired warrior appeared to claim the throne.

Word: Nexus
Meaning: the focal place or point
Example: In our town; the nexus of the art world is the museum district.

Word: Nibble
Meaning: to take small bites
Example: As he continued to nibble on the small piece of cheese; the mouse did not see the sneaky cat coming up behind him.

Word: Nicely
Meaning: suitably; adequately
Example: The colors of the tenant’s new furniture blends in nicely with the apartments neutral walls.

Word: Nicety
Meaning: accuracy or precision
Example: The nicety of her spelling allowed her to win both the local and state spelling bees.

Word: Niche
Meaning: a unique field or market
Example: With so many cupcakes stores open; it is hard to find a competitive niche in that market.

Word: Nick
Meaning: a small chip or groove
Example: A small nick in the wood was the only flaw in the bedroom suite.

Word: Nickname
Meaning: an alias or alternate name that someone uses instead of their real name
Example: Because he has the same name as hid dad; Jerry goes by the nickname Junior.

Word: Niece
Meaning: the daughter of one’s sister or brother
Example: My brother and sister-in-law want to have a boy; but I am secretly hoping for a niece.

Word: Niggardly
Meaning: miserly; extremely stingy
Example: Even though the niggardly old man was worth millions; he still buried his wife in the cheapest casket available.

Word: Niggle
Meaning: to cause minor but continuous irritation or anxiety
Example: Something decided to niggle at me for the duration of the day; but even though it continued to bother me I couldn’t remember what it was.

Word: Nightmare
Meaning: a very terrifying or upsetting situation
Example: The bride’s dream wedding quickly turned into a nightmare after the groom ran away from the altar.

Word: Nihilism
Meaning: the idea that societal rules are worthless and should be eliminated
Example: The rebels urged the people to grab hold of nihilism and remove all government officials from office.

Word: Nil
Meaning: nothing; zero; nonexistent
Example: With only five of us and over a hundred of the enemy; our chances of emerging victorious in this battle are nil.

Word: Nimble
Meaning: quick in action or comprehension
Example: The overweight police officer could not catch the nimble suspect.

Word: Nimbus
Meaning: a dark grey rain cloud
Example: Looking up at the dark nimbus; Hector wondered how long it would be before it started to rain.

Word: Nimiety
Meaning: a quantity that is in excess of what’s appropriate
Example: A nimiety of food was spread over the tables and was way more than any one group of people could eat.

Word: Nincompoop
Meaning: a foolish person who is considered dumb
Example: Harold always behaves like a nincompoop; running around making faces at others trying to do their work.

Word: Nirvana 
Meaning: a place of peace and happiness
Example: The monk urged me to sit and meditate until I reached nirvana.

Word: Nitpick
Meaning: to correct minutiae or find fault in unimportant details
Example: Does anyone else notice how judges will nitpick about the littlest mistakes on competition shows?

Word: Niveous
Meaning: snowy; white like snow
Example: After the snowstorm; the niveous landscape was as white as snow.

Word: Nix
Meaning: to cancel; end; or reject
Example: Over time; it became painfully clear that the smartest choice was to nix the partnership and dissolve the business.

Word: No frills
Meaning: providing only the necessities and nothing extra or fancy
Example: We booked a no frills vacation for a cheaper price than the luxurious one my parents planned.

Word: Nobility
Meaning: the people of a society who are privileged and of high rank or title
Example: The nobility ate with the King and Queen during the huge feast.

Word: Noble
Meaning: displaying exceptional character traits 
Example: The noble dog would not leave the side of his wounded master.

Word: Nocturnal
Meaning: taking place at night
Example: Bats are nocturnal creatures because they tend to be more active during the night hours.

Word: Nocuous
Meaning: harmful; likely to cause injury
Example: Sitting inside the deadly car; the driver was unaware that he was breathing in nocuous gas.

Word: Nod
Meaning: to move your head down then up a few times; a motion used instead of saying yes; agree or understand what someone is saying
Example: At the diner; when the waitress asked if I was ready for more coffee; I gave her a silent nod because my mouth was full of food.

Word: Noetic
Meaning: of or pertaining to the mind or intellect
Example: In the debate between the two top teams; it became apparent of the leader’s noetic capabilities to describe the history and reasoning behind their debating topic.

Word: Noisily
Meaning: loudly
Example: The inexperienced hiker noisily made his way through the woods by stepping on every downed branch.

Word: Noisome 
Meaning: disgusting in smell
Example: The dog’s noisome odor is making me physically ill.

Word: Noisy
Meaning: making a great deal of noise
Example: The young drummer wants a drum set for his room; but his parents fear the instrument will be too noisy.

Word: Nomad
Meaning: one who wanders
Example: The nomad never stays in a city for more than two months.

Word: Nomadic
Meaning: having the life of a drifter
Example: Because my husband is a long distance truck driver; his days are very nomadic.

Word: Nomenclature
Meaning: a group of terms or names; usually in a specific discipline
Example: In law school; students spend years learning legal nomenclature so they will be prepared to work as attorneys.

Word: Nominal
Meaning: incredibly small
Example: The court gave me a nominal award that did not cover the cost of my car repairs.

Word: Nominate
Meaning: to elect someone as a potential candidate for a position
Example: Though Nick is already running for class President; I am going to nominate my friend Vicky as well; as I believe she has a shot at winning.

Word: Non compos mentis
Meaning: unable to make decisions because of a mental issue; whether it be psychological; physical; or through a disease like dementia
Example: The court declared the defendant non compos mentis and mandated time served in a psychiatric facility.

Word: Non compos mentis
Meaning: not of sound mind; unable to handle one’s own affairs legally
Example: Ruling that the woman was non compos mentis; the judge agreed that her family could put her into a mental institute.

Word: Non-negotiable
Meaning: not open to discussion or modification
Example: Because the price of the home was non-negotiable; the couple had to pay the price that the owners were asking or skip the sale.

Word: Non-sequitur
Meaning: a statement or conclusion that does not logically follow something said before
Example: The politician’s excuse for his lies was a non-sequitur that had nothing to do with the facts.

Word: Nonagon
Meaning: a nine sided polygon
Example: The pocket watch was a nonagon; with nine sides around the brass edge.

Word: Nonchalant
Meaning: relaxed and calm in a way that shows you do not care or are not worried about anything
Example: Surprisingly; the woman was nonchalant about her husband’s death.

Word: Noncommittal
Meaning: displaying no sign of emotion or opinion
Example: Since my mother is noncommittal about buying me new sneakers; I will ask my adoring father to buy the shoes for me.

Word: Nonconformist
Meaning: not conforming to established customs etc
Example: The nonconformist farmer loves to wear his overalls to important meetings.

Word: Nonconformity
Meaning: failure to cooperate with the established norms
Example: After telling the students to wear black to remember their principal who died recently; nonconformity was evident from the group of students in red.

Word: Nondescript 
Meaning: without qualities that make a thing or person interesting
Example: The man dressed in such a nondescript manner that no one remembered seeing him at the party.

Word: None
Meaning: not any or no one
Example: My friends had bought dinner for me while I was asleep; but by the time I woke up there was none left anyway.

Word: Nonentity 
Meaning: a person who is not important
Example: The celebrity cut in front of me like I was a nonentity.

Word: Nonetheless
Meaning: even so or nevertheless
Example: Even though the donation was small; it was; nonetheless; a contribution for a worthy cause.

Word: Nonexistent
Meaning: something that is imaginary or absent
Example: The attention-seeking girl was known for bragging to her friends about her nonexistent trips around the world.

Word: Nonfiction
Meaning: true writing pertaining to real-life people; places or things
Example: After studying the unit on nonfiction; the English teacher assigned each student to write a report about a famous celebrity.

Word: Nonpareil
Meaning: without rival; unmatched
Example: Because the restaurant’s food is nonpareil in the city; the dining establishment has a six-month waiting list.

Word: Nonpartisan
Meaning: neutral and not connected to any specific political group
Example: The two political parties are working on a nonpartisan agreement that would help all citizens.

Word: Nonplussed
Meaning: confused about how to behave or respond
Example: When the politician was questioned about his position on a tough issue; he appeared nonplussed and took a long time to respond to the reporter.

Word: Nonprofit
Meaning: referring to an organization or process that is not designed primarily for making money
Example: Charities are nonprofit organizations that exist for a reason that does not include making money for its own members and success.

Word: Nonsectarian 
Meaning: not associated with any particular group or religion
Example: Because Ellen and Joey are not members of a church; they had a nonsectarian wedding at city hall.

Word: Nonsense
Meaning: ridiculous ideas; terms; or actions 
Example: My rebellious daughter is always talking nonsense about running away from home.

Word: Nonsensical
Meaning: without sense; ridiculous; foolish
Example: The children were singing nonsensical songs about imaginary characters.

Word: Nook
Meaning: a hidden or secluded spot
Example: They searched in every nook and cranny for her missing diamond ring; without success.

Word: Nor
Meaning: a word used to add another false statement
Example: When Bill is sedated; he experiences neither joy nor sorrow.

Word: Norm
Meaning: that which is typical or usual
Example: As a child; the little girl fought the norm and refused to wear skirts or dresses.

Word: Normal
Meaning: standard or usual/typical
Example: The patient’s test results came back normal and with no issues.

Word: Normalcy
Meaning: state of being normal
Example: Everything went back to normalcy once the holidays were over.

Word: Normality
Meaning: ordinariness; normalcy
Example: The normality of their everyday life together often left the couple yawning from boredom.

Word: Normalize
Meaning: to adhere to the common or regular ways
Example: Since breastfeeding is a natural process for infants; many people feel the need to normalize the act of breastfeeding in public.

Word: Nosedive
Meaning: to fall very quickly
Example: When the engine failed; the airplane began to nosedive to the ground.

Word: Nostalgia
Meaning: a longing for a time or event that has passed
Example: My grandmother says the jazz music triggers nostalgia for her youth.

Word: Nostalgic
Meaning: regret for something that is gone
Example: Some filmmakers miss the early days of moviemaking and are nostalgic about actually using film to create motion pictures.

Word: Nostrum
Meaning: a plan or remedy that is unlikely to work
Example: Although my sister is not a doctor; she thinks she can cure any illness and is quick to suggest a nostrum to her friends.

Word: Notable
Meaning: famous and remarkable
Example: When the speaker used a notable quote in her speech; everyone in the audience knew who she was referring to since they had heard that quote before.

Word: Nasty
Meaning: something foul or horrid that can leave one disgusted
Example: The medicine left a nasty taste in the toddler’s mouth; causing her to spit it out.

Word: Natal
Meaning: associated with a birth
Example: I consider Smithfield to be my natal home because I was born there thirty years ago.

Word: Nation
Meaning: a group of people inhabiting a particular territory and united by common characteristics such as descent; culture; or language
Example: The nation of Germany is unified by the language that the common populace speaks; as well as their history and culture.

Word: National
Meaning: related or common to a whole country
Example: The national chain has retail stores in every state in the U.S.A.

Word: Nationalism
Meaning: such devotion to a country that other nations pale in comparison
Example: During the war; the rising tide of nationalism resulted in people buying only American-made products.

Word: Nationality
Meaning: the position usually citizenship of someone or something being a part of a nation
Example: After realizing that the young woman’s nationality was Israeli since she came from Israel; he was assumed that her ethnicity was Jewish.

Word: Native
Meaning: of or relating to the place where you were born
Example: The Latin was not raised in his native country; which is why we believed that he did not possess their mannerisms.

Word: Nativism
Meaning: the practice of giving preference to the native residents of an area
Example: Nativism is observed by individuals who believe their culture is superior to other cultures.

Word: Nativity
Meaning: birth; specifically the birth of Jesus Christ
Example: During the nativity play; the innkeeper told Jesus’s parents that there was no room for them on the night of his birth.

Word: Natural resources
Meaning: materials or substances such as minerals; forests; water; and fertile land that occur in nature and can be used for economic gain
Example: According to the Environmental Protection Agency; last year humans consumed many more natural resources that the earth could renew.

Word: Natural selection
Meaning: the process by which animals and plants that can adapt to changes in their environment are able to survive and reproduce while those that can't adapt die off
Example: Our professor was attempting to explain natural selection by telling us that weak die off and the strong survive.

Word: Natural
Meaning: something organic derived from nature that is raw and pure; not having been treated or processed
Example: Natural honey is one of the only raw and pure foods that never goes bad.

Word: Naturalist
Meaning: someone who studies life and nature
Example: While wandering in the forest; a naturalist was walking a trail to determine if there were any new birds in the area.

Word: Naturalization
Meaning: the process by which a foreign individual is awarded citizenship
Example: In order to become a citizen; Alberto will have to go through the process of naturalization.

Word: Naturally
Meaning: to happen on its own; without help
Example: Sarah didn’t have to put hot rollers in her hair in the morning because she had naturally curly hair already.

Word: Nature
Meaning: the world of the environment of plants and animals
Example: The refreshing nature hike was just what I needed to become energized and happy.

Word: Naught 
Meaning: not anything
Example: Because Kurt’s negotiating skills amount to naught; we were not able to get a price reduction on the car.

Word: Naught
Meaning: nothing
Example: Everything I wrote was for naught when my computer crashed.

Word: Naughty
Meaning: to behave poorly
Example: At Christmas time; Santa will ask children if they have been naughty or nice during the year.

Word: Nausea
Meaning: queasiness which sometimes leads to throwing up
Example: Spinning around in circles for thirty minutes made the girl have nausea in her stomach.

Word: Nauseating
Meaning: sickening and repulsive
Example: After eating the moldy fruit; the child had a nauseating feeling in her stomach resulting in her throwing up.

Word: Nauseous
Meaning: a sick queasy feeling
Example: Due to Kate’s nauseous feeling during the past few mornings; it became obvious that she was pregnant.

Word: Nautical
Meaning: relating to or involving ships or shipping or navigation or seamen
Example: We sailed hundreds of nautical miles with no land in sight.

Word: Navel
Meaning: bellybutton
Example: Drawing in her navel; the pudgy woman tried to make her stomach look thinner in the mirror.

Word: Navigable
Meaning: controllable or maneuverable
Example: Tests were done on the new Boeing plane to determine if it was navigable in the air at high altitudes.

Word: Navigate
Meaning: to direct a route
Example: Christopher Columbus would navigate his ship across the Atlantic Ocean to an unknown land.

Word: Navigation
Meaning: the procedure that one uses to track a course
Example: Once the plans for the navigation to get to the secret hideaway were in place; the team of detectives quickly drove to find the kidnapped child.

Word: Navigator
Meaning: the pilot or director of a vessel in the land; water or air
Example: When the fishing boat capsized; the navigator was blamed for steering the boat into an oncoming storm.

Word: Navy
Meaning: a country’s armed service using ships and boats
Example: During the war; the ships from the country’s navy were sent out to defend against the attack on their land.

Word: Nay
Meaning: not at all or nope
Example: When Congress decided to vote; the vice president asked the congressman to say yea if they are in favor of the issue or nay if they are not.

Word: Nazism
Meaning: the theories and processes of the Nazis
Example: Using the ideologies of Nazism from the 1930s; the Ku Klux Klan now show their racist beliefs through their violent actions.

Word: Near
Meaning: the small span between two objects or things
Example: The only reason Ginger moved near the mall was so she could go shopping frequently.

Word: Nearby
Meaning: to be close by to something
Example: Since Walmart was nearby; we ran to the store to quickly purchase the costume for the play.

Word: Nearer
Meaning: closer or not as far away
Example: The fan tried to draw nearer to the musician; but the star’s security blocked the stage.

Word: Nearly
Meaning: approximately or about
Example: Ms. Fisher allowed her son to go play outside since he was nearly finished with his homework.

Word: Neat
Meaning: orderly; arranged
Example: Each neat row of corn in the farmer’s field was planted efficiently for a quick harvest.

Word: Neat
Meaning: tidy and well-ordered
Example: A neat stack of post it notes sat in a pile on the accountant’s desk.

Word: Neatly
Meaning: in a tidy or organized way
Example: Stacking the papers neatly; the assistant attempted to organize the doctor’s cluttered desk.

Word: Neatness
Meaning: the act of being tidy and orderly
Example: Alan suffered from Obsessive Compulsive Disorder due to his desire to have extreme neatness in the house at all times.

Word: Nebbish
Meaning: one who is nervous and lacks confidence and courage; especially in making decisions and plans; in discussions; debates; arguments; and confrontations; and in taking responsibility
Example: The nebbish refuses to take responsibility for his actions; always too afraid to admit that he made a mistake.

Word: Nebula
Meaning: a space cloud consisting of gas or dust
Example: I love to venture out into the open fields on a clear night and gawk at every galaxy and nebula that my naked eyes can detect.

Word: Nebulous
Meaning: Unclear; vague; not clearly defined
Example: It was not difficult to realize her answer to the question was nebulous.

Word: Necessarily
Meaning: automatically; certainly
Example: Putting down that you are a felon won’t necessarily stop you from getting the job; but it probably won’t help either.

Word: Necessary
Meaning: being required or vital
Example: For the chocolate cake; the necessary ingredients included flour; eggs; butter and cocoa.

Word: Necessitate
Meaning: to make essential as a result of something
Example: The heavy rain will necessitate the use of an umbrella.

Word: Necessities
Meaning: needs or essential supplies
Example: Even though the spoiled wife believed that a sports car and lots of money were the necessities of life; she could have lived with a regular sedan.

Word: Necessitous
Meaning: deprived and poverty-stricken
Example: The necessitous circumstances surrounding the flood victims became evidence when we saw all of the destruction.

Word: Necessity
Meaning: to be essential or vital
Example: Water is a necessity of life because failure to drink water in three days will cause death.

Word: Necrology
Meaning: a biographical description of a person who has recently died
Example: My grandmother’s necrology was posted online so that everyone could see what a wonderful person she was.

Word: Necromancy
Meaning: the act of communicating with spirits of deceased individuals
Example: When Maggie’s husband died; she visited a psychic who claimed she could use necromancy to talk to deceased persons.

Word: Necrosis
Meaning: the complete deterioration of a bodily organ
Example: Cancer first caused the necrosis of the liver which led to the liver failing to produce proteins used in coagulating the blood.

Word: Nectar
Meaning: the sweet liquid produced from certain plants and flowers that bees turn into honey
Example: Instead of acquiring the nectar from the plant; the farmers knew to wait until the bumblebees would convert it into honey.

Word: Nee
Meaning: born with this name usually before getting married
Example: Harriet Tubman; nee Araminta Ross; helped slaves escape to the North using the Underground Railroad.

Word: Needle
Meaning: a long thin sharp pointy device that holds thread and is used for stitching fabric
Example: When I tore my shirt; my friend grabbed a needle and thread in order to sew the material back together.

Word: Needless
Meaning: not essential or wanted
Example: Usually; the child spoke needless words simply because he was used to babbling all day about random things.

Word: Nefarious
Meaning: very evil and wicked
Example: How nefarious of you to fling dog crap on my car!

Word: Negate
Meaning: to cause something to be ineffective; to nullify
Example: Be careful when shopping because you do not want unnecessary purchases to negate the value of the coupons you are using.

Word: Negative
Meaning: a gloomy outlook on something
Example: Teenagers usually have negative attitudes toward adults because they think they know everything.

Word: Negative
Meaning: focused on what is bad; harmful; or lacking
Example: Negative effects of the medicine have stopped many patients from taking it.

Word: Neglect
Meaning: to abandon or ignore
Example: When you have children and work a full-time job; you may neglect your appearance because it is not important anymore.

Word: Negligence
Meaning: neglect; inattention
Example: The parent’s negligence resulted in their children being taken from their care and placed in a safer home.

Word: Negligent
Meaning: careless; irresponsible
Example: I felt negligent for leaving Jean’s toddler alone in the car.

Word: Negligible
Meaning: too small to be of importance
Example: Since the price difference between the generic item and the brand item is negligible; I will buy the brand product.

Word: Negotiable
Meaning: capable of being bargained or bartered with
Example: Even though the house was priced very low; the potential buyers still believe the price was negotiable.

Word: Negotiate
Meaning: to try to reach an agreement or come to terms
Example: We sat down to negotiate a deal that would satisfy everyone.

Word: Neigh
Meaning: the sound a horse makes
Example: Whenever anyone would get close to the fence; the horse would neigh to get the attention of its master.

Word: Neighbor
Meaning: a person who resides nearby
Example: While baking a cake; I needed to ask my neighbor for sugar since I had just run out.

Word: Neighborhood
Meaning: an area where people live close together
Example: The single woman became frightened when a prowler was spotted in her neighborhood looking in everyone’s houses.

Word: Nemesis
Meaning: an enemy who is constantly causing problems
Example: Kara was not happy when her nemesis won the contest.

Word: Neoclassical
Meaning: in the manner of Ancient Greek or Romans
Example: Neoclassical artists model their paintings off of Ancient Greek and Roman masterpieces.

Word: Neolithic
Meaning: relating to a time known as the New Stone Age in which polished stone tools; pottery; weaving; stock rearing; and agriculture became prominent
Example: The village dwellings are adobe style and were crafted from clay and water.

Word: Neolithic
Meaning: the last part of the Stone Age in which agricultural and technological elements began to advance
Example: The village is home to a Neolithic dig site where late Stone Age pieces have been discovered.

Word: Neologism
Meaning: a new term or phrase recently added to a person or group’s vocabulary
Example: The neologism became so popular it was added to most dictionaries.

Word: Neonatal
Meaning: relating to a newborn baby
Example: Positive neonatal outcomes were much more positive for babies whose mothers did not smoke during pregnancy.

Word: Neophyte
Meaning: someone who is just learning to do something
Example: Because I have very little computer experience; I am a neophyte when it comes to working with most software programs.

Word: Nepenthe
Meaning: a fictional potion said to have been used by the ancient people to erase the memory of pain or sorrow
Example: To help her chase away all of her sorrow; Polydamna gave Helen a nepenthe potion.

Word: Nephew
Meaning: a son of one's brother or sister
Example: My sister enjoys keeping her nephew in the afternoons and it helps me get work done as well.

Word: Nepotism
Meaning: the act of giving opportunities to others simply because of a personal relationship
Example: Since George is an idiot everyone knows his father hired him because of nepotism.

Word: Nerve
Meaning: courage; steadfastness
Example: Gathering the nerve to ask the young lady to dance; the shy wallflower ventured away from the corner and marched towards the center of the dance floor.

Word: Nerves
Meaning: a person’s mental state or perceived source of emotional control
Example: The anxious player’s nerves were on edge as he waited to see if he would be drafted in the first round.

Word: Nervous breakdown
Meaning: a period of mental illness that results from depression; stress; or anxiety
Example: After finding out that her husband was having an affair; the upset wife had a nervous breakdown and ended up in the mental hospital.

Word: Nervous wreck
Meaning: a person who is extremely anxious or worried about something
Example: Because she is so afraid of fish; Demi was a nervous wreck while swimming in the ocean.

Word: Nervous
Meaning: anxious; worried
Example: The bank teller could tell that the uneasy robber was nervous by the way his hand shook as he brandished his weapon.

Word: Nervously
Meaning: anxiously; apprehensively
Example: Smiling nervously; the interviewee tried not to let her anxiety show.

Word: Nervousness
Meaning: anxiety; edginess
Example: During dinner; the gentleman could sense his date’s nervousness as she anxiously tapped her fingers on the table.

Word: Nescience
Meaning: unawareness or ignorance
Example: Because of a nescience of allergic reactions; many people with allergies don’t carry the proper emergency medicines.

Word: Nestle
Meaning: to snuggle or cuddle something
Example: The bear cub’s mother began to nestle him closer as they drifted off to sleep.

Word: Net Force
Meaning: the total amount of force exerted on an object
Example: If you are pushing a cart and there is no resistance; the force you are exerting on that cart is the net force.

Word: Net
Meaning: a piece of mesh fabric used for as specific purpose (usually to catch animals or sports balls.)
Example: Positioning the net in the water; the fisherman prepared to catch a fish with one swift swoop.

Word: Nether
Meaning: rear; posterior
Example: An anatomy ultrasound scan of the fetus’s nether regions showed that he is definitely all boy.

Word: Nettle
Meaning: to cause someone to become annoyed or angry
Example: My brother will often nettle me by reading my diary.

Word: Nettlesome
Meaning: irritating; annoying
Example: Asking another nettlesome question; the child irritated her mother to no end.

Word: Network
Meaning: a system or association
Example: Our insurance will only pay for treatment if you use a doctor that is in their network of providers.

Word: Neural
Meaning: relating to the nervous system
Example: Nerves in the brain of mice brains were examined to determine what kind of neural response was released after food was given.

Word: Neuralgia
Meaning: pain in a nerve pathway
Example: Neuralgia is a form of chronic nerve pain that is hard for doctors to understand and diagnose.

Word: Neurasthenic
Meaning: a now obsolete psychiatric symptom that is more commonly known as chronic fatigue syndrome and is characterized by extreme mental and physical exhaustion
Example: Early 19th century insane asylums were filled with people showing neurasthenic symptoms; simply exhausted and in need of rest.

Word: Neurological
Meaning: related to the science of the nerves and nervous system
Example: Neurological problems related to the brain’s nerve endings were diagnosed by the patient’s physician.

Word: Neurologist
Meaning: a physician that deals with deals with the nervous system and the diseases that affect it
Example: Only one neurologist was available to talk to the patient’s family after he severely injured the nerves in his hand.

Word: Neurology
Meaning: the branch of medicine that deals with the nervous system and the diseases that affect it
Example: The physician decided to specialize in neurology since the study of the central nervous system piqued her interest.

Word: Neuromuscular
Meaning: relating to both the nerves and muscles
Example: Neuromuscular damage to the spinal cord nerves and surrounding muscles left the diver unable to move.

Word: Neuroscience
Meaning: the scientific study of the nervous system and the brain
Example: The field of neuroscience is fairly new; with the study of the brain and the body’s still being rather contemporary.

Word: Neurotic
Meaning: overly anxious; unstable
Example: Sally is a neurotic person who is often moody.

Word: Neutral
Meaning: unbiased; impartial
Example: Being neutral in the matter; I refused to take sides with either my brother or my sister.

Word: Neutrality
Meaning: the state or quality of being neutral; state of taking no part on either side
Example: Neutrality was impossible when choosing to write a persuasive speech.

Word: Neutralize
Meaning: to make unsuccessful or ineffective
Example: A glass of milk will help neutralize the spicy contents in my stomach.

Word: Neutron
Meaning: a particle in a nucleus; made of quarks; that lacks an electric charge and has a mass comparable to the mass of a proton
Example: Unlike a proton which has a positive charge; a neutron doesn’t have any charge.

Word: Nevertheless
Meaning: yet; however
Example: A wage assignment was issued; nevertheless; a payment has not been made.

Word: New-hire
Meaning: an employee who was recently hired for a job
Example: The manager requested that the new-hire take a drug test before reporting to his newly assigned post.

Word: Newcomer
Meaning: a beginner at a place or in a group
Example: Since the middle school students grew up together in the tight-knit small town; it was evident when a newcomer entered the school.

Word: Newfangled
Meaning: contemporary; modern
Example: Newfangled cell phone cameras have all put replaced the handheld Polaroids of the past.

Word: Newness
Meaning: the quality of being new or original
Example: The shiny diamond’s newness quickly wore off; and the woman returned the impulsive purchase to the jeweler.

Word: Newscast
Meaning: a news broadcast
Example: Expressing their condolences beforehand; reporters on the ten o’clock newscast confirmed that remains of the missing scuba diver had been discovered.

Word: Newton
Meaning: the Standard International unit of force
Example: Force is a quantity that is measured by a metric unit known as a newton.

Word: Next
Meaning: following; subsequent
Example: The next day; the oracle’s prediction came true when a golden-haired warrior appeared to claim the throne.

Word: Nexus
Meaning: the focal place or point
Example: In our town; the nexus of the art world is the museum district.

Word: Nibble
Meaning: to take small bites
Example: As he continued to nibble on the small piece of cheese; the mouse did not see the sneaky cat coming up behind him.

Word: Nicely
Meaning: suitably; adequately
Example: The colors of the tenant’s new furniture blends in nicely with the apartments neutral walls.

Word: Nicety
Meaning: accuracy or precision
Example: The nicety of her spelling allowed her to win both the local and state spelling bees.

Word: Niche
Meaning: a unique field or market
Example: With so many cupcakes stores open; it is hard to find a competitive niche in that market.

Word: Nick
Meaning: a small chip or groove
Example: A small nick in the wood was the only flaw in the bedroom suite.

Word: Nickname
Meaning: an alias or alternate name that someone uses instead of their real name
Example: Because he has the same name as hid dad; Jerry goes by the nickname Junior.

Word: Niece
Meaning: the daughter of one’s sister or brother
Example: My brother and sister-in-law want to have a boy; but I am secretly hoping for a niece.

Word: Niggardly
Meaning: miserly; extremely stingy
Example: Even though the niggardly old man was worth millions; he still buried his wife in the cheapest casket available.

Word: Niggle
Meaning: to cause minor but continuous irritation or anxiety
Example: Something decided to niggle at me for the duration of the day; but even though it continued to bother me I couldn’t remember what it was.

Word: Nightmare
Meaning: a very terrifying or upsetting situation
Example: The bride’s dream wedding quickly turned into a nightmare after the groom ran away from the altar.

Word: Nihilism
Meaning: the idea that societal rules are worthless and should be eliminated
Example: The rebels urged the people to grab hold of nihilism and remove all government officials from office.

Word: Nil
Meaning: nothing; zero; nonexistent
Example: With only five of us and over a hundred of the enemy; our chances of emerging victorious in this battle are nil.

Word: Nimble
Meaning: quick in action or comprehension
Example: The overweight police officer could not catch the nimble suspect.

Word: Nimbus
Meaning: a dark grey rain cloud
Example: Looking up at the dark nimbus; Hector wondered how long it would be before it started to rain.

Word: Nimiety
Meaning: a quantity that is in excess of what’s appropriate
Example: A nimiety of food was spread over the tables and was way more than any one group of people could eat.

Word: Nincompoop
Meaning: a foolish person who is considered dumb
Example: Harold always behaves like a nincompoop; running around making faces at others trying to do their work.

Word: Nirvana 
Meaning: a place of peace and happiness
Example: The monk urged me to sit and meditate until I reached nirvana.

Word: Nitpick
Meaning: to correct minutiae or find fault in unimportant details
Example: Does anyone else notice how judges will nitpick about the littlest mistakes on competition shows? 

Word: Niveous
Meaning: snowy; white like snow
Example: After the snowstorm; the niveous landscape was as white as snow.

Word: Nix
Meaning: to cancel; end; or reject
Example: Over time; it became painfully clear that the smartest choice was to nix the partnership and dissolve the business.

Word: No frills
Meaning: providing only the necessities and nothing extra or fancy
Example: We booked a no frills vacation for a cheaper price than the luxurious one my parents planned.

Word: Nobility
Meaning: the people of a society who are privileged and of high rank or title
Example: The nobility ate with the King and Queen during the huge feast.

Word: Noble
Meaning: displaying exceptional character traits
Example: The noble dog would not leave the side of his wounded master.

Word: Nocturnal
Meaning: taking place at night
Example: Bats are nocturnal creatures because they tend to be more active during the night hours.

Word: Nocuous
Meaning: harmful; likely to cause injury
Example: Sitting inside the deadly car; the driver was unaware that he was breathing in nocuous gas.

Word: Nod
Meaning: to move your head down then up a few times; a motion used instead of saying yes; agree or understand what someone is saying
Example: At the diner; when the waitress asked if I was ready for more coffee; I gave her a silent nod because my mouth was full of food. 

Word: Noetic
Meaning: of or pertaining to the mind or intellect
Example: In the debate between the two top teams; it became apparent of the leader’s noetic capabilities to describe the history and reasoning behind their debating topic.

Word: Noisily
Meaning: loudly
Example: The inexperienced hiker noisily made his way through the woods by stepping on every downed branch.

Word: Noisome 
Meaning: disgusting in smell
Example: The dog’s noisome odor is making me physically ill.

Word: Noisy
Meaning: making a great deal of noise
Example: The young drummer wants a drum set for his room; but his parents fear the instrument will be too noisy.

Word: Nomad
Meaning: one who wanders
Example: The nomad never stays in a city for more than two months.

Word: Nomadic
Meaning: having the life of a drifter
Example: Because my husband is a long distance truck driver; his days are very nomadic.

Word: Nomenclature
Meaning: a group of terms or names; usually in a specific discipline
Example: In law school; students spend years learning legal nomenclature so they will be prepared to work as attorneys.

Word: Nominal
Meaning: incredibly small
Example: The court gave me a nominal award that did not cover the cost of my car repairs.

Word: Nominate
Meaning: to elect someone as a potential candidate for a position
Example: Though Nick is already running for class President; I am going to nominate my friend Vicky as well; as I believe she has a shot at winning.

Word: Non compos mentis
Meaning: unable to make decisions because of a mental issue; whether it be psychological; physical; or through a disease like dementia
Example: The court declared the defendant non compos mentis and mandated time served in a psychiatric facility.

Word: Non compos mentis
Meaning: not of sound mind; unable to handle one’s own affairs legally
Example: Ruling that the woman was non compos mentis; the judge agreed that her family could put her into a mental institute.

Word: Non-negotiable
Meaning: not open to discussion or modification
Example: Because the price of the home was non-negotiable; the couple had to pay the price that the owners were asking or skip the sale.

Word: Non-sequitur
Meaning: a statement or conclusion that does not logically follow something said before
Example: The politician’s excuse for his lies was a non-sequitur that had nothing to do with the facts.

Word: Nonagon
Meaning: a nine sided polygon
Example: The pocket watch was a nonagon; with nine sides around the brass edge.

Word: Nonchalant
Meaning: relaxed and calm in a way that shows you do not care or are not worried about anything
Example: Surprisingly; the woman was nonchalant about her husband’s death.

Word: Noncommittal
Meaning: displaying no sign of emotion or opinion
Example: Since my mother is noncommittal about buying me new sneakers; I will ask my adoring father to buy the shoes for me.

Word: Nonconformist
Meaning: not conforming to established customs etc
Example: The nonconformist farmer loves to wear his overalls to important meetings.

Word: Nonconformity
Meaning: failure to cooperate with the established norms
Example: After telling the students to wear black to remember their principal who died recently; nonconformity was evident from the group of students in red.

Word: Nondescript 
Meaning: without qualities that make a thing or person interesting
Example: The man dressed in such a nondescript manner that no one remembered seeing him at the party.

Word: None
Meaning: not any or no one
Example: My friends had bought dinner for me while I was asleep; but by the time I woke up there was none left anyway.

Word: Nonentity 
Meaning: a person who is not important
Example: The celebrity cut in front of me like I was a nonentity.

Word: Nonetheless
Meaning: even so or nevertheless
Example: Even though the donation was small; it was; nonetheless; a contribution for a worthy cause.

Word: Nonexistent
Meaning: something that is imaginary or absent
Example: The attention-seeking girl was known for bragging to her friends about her nonexistent trips around the world.

Word: Nonfiction
Meaning: true writing pertaining to real-life people; places or things
Example: After studying the unit on nonfiction; the English teacher assigned each student to write a report about a famous celebrity.

Word: Nonpareil
Meaning: without rival; unmatched
Example: Because the restaurant’s food is nonpareil in the city; the dining establishment has a six-month waiting list.

Word: Nonpartisan
Meaning: neutral and not connected to any specific political group
Example: The two political parties are working on a nonpartisan agreement that would help all citizens.

Word: Nonplussed
Meaning: confused about how to behave or respond
Example: When the politician was questioned about his position on a tough issue; he appeared nonplussed and took a long time to respond to the reporter.

Word: Nonprofit
Meaning: referring to an organization or process that is not designed primarily for making money
Example: Charities are nonprofit organizations that exist for a reason that does not include making money for its own members and success.

Word: Nonsectarian 
Meaning: not associated with any particular group or religion
Example: Because Ellen and Joey are not members of a church; they had a nonsectarian wedding at city hall.

Word: Nonsense
Meaning: ridiculous ideas; terms; or actions
Example: My rebellious daughter is always talking nonsense about running away from home.

Word: Nonsensical
Meaning: without sense; ridiculous; foolish
Example: The children were singing nonsensical songs about imaginary characters.

Word: Nook
Meaning: a hidden or secluded spot
Example: They searched in every nook and cranny for her missing diamond ring; without success.

Word: Nor
Meaning: a word used to add another false statement
Example: When Bill is sedated; he experiences neither joy nor sorrow.

Word: Norm
Meaning: that which is typical or usual
Example: As a child; the little girl fought the norm and refused to wear skirts or dresses.

Word: Normal
Meaning: standard or usual/typical
Example: The patient’s test results came back normal and with no issues.

Word: Normalcy
Meaning: state of being normal
Example: Everything went back to normalcy once the holidays were over.

Word: Normality
Meaning: ordinariness; normalcy
Example: The normality of their everyday life together often left the couple yawning from boredom.

Word: Normalize
Meaning: to adhere to the common or regular ways
Example: Since breastfeeding is a natural process for infants; many people feel the need to normalize the act of breastfeeding in public.

Word: Nosedive
Meaning: to fall very quickly
Example: When the engine failed; the airplane began to nosedive to the ground.

Word: Nosey
Meaning: snooping and prying because of interest in what is going on
Example: Due to her nosey nature; Barbara would often put her ear to the door of her sister’s room to hear what she was saying to her friend on the phone.

Word: Nostalgia
Meaning: a longing for a time or event that has passed
Example: My grandmother says the jazz music triggers nostalgia for her youth.

Word: Nostalgic
Meaning: regret for something that is gone
Example: Some filmmakers miss the early days of moviemaking and are nostalgic about actually using film to create motion pictures.

Word: Nostrum
Meaning: a plan or remedy that is unlikely to work
Example: Although my sister is not a doctor; she thinks she can cure any illness and is quick to suggest a nostrum to her friends.

Word: Notable
Meaning: famous and remarkable
Example: When the speaker used a notable quote in her speech; everyone in the audience knew who she was referring to since they had heard that quote before.

Word: Notably
Meaning: in a manner that is remarkable or greater than expected
Example: Jim was notably absent from his wedding reception.

Word: Notarize
Meaning: to show something is legitimate by having it verified by a licensed person
Example: Amanda has the authorization to notarize the letter you need for court.

Word: Notation
Meaning: a few words written to explain something; usually as a note
Example: My professor placed a notation at the bottom of my test paper indicating that he was not pleased with my progress.

Word: Notch
Meaning: a small shape cut or indentation into something
Example: When installing our new hardwood floor; Brian had to cut a notch into the thick board in order for it to be flushed around door jamb. 

Word: Noteworthy
Meaning: worthy of notice or attention
Example: The most noteworthy player of the game will receive an MVP trophy.

Word: Notice
Meaning: become aware of
Example: All the smitten girl wanted was for her crush to notice her; but unfortunately; he only had eyes for her best friend.

Word: Noticeable
Meaning: obvious; not easily missed
Example: After Linda had plastic surgery; the difference in the size of her nose was quite noticeable.

Word: Notify
Meaning: to inform someone of something
Example: The doctor’s office said that they would notify me by mail when to schedule my next appointment.

Word: Notion 
Meaning: an inkling to do something
Example: When Jim realized he would not receive many votes; he dropped the notion of entering the student council race.

Word: Notoriety
Meaning: being known for something bad
Example: The notoriety of violence in the downtown area keeps many tourists from visiting that part of the city.

Word: Notorious 
Meaning: known for unpopular or unflattering reasons
Example: The singer is notorious for wearing clothes that are way too revealing.

Word: Notwithstanding 
Meaning: despite; regardless
Example: Notwithstanding his injured knee; the football player made two touchdowns.

Word: Nourish
Meaning: to provide with things needed for development or growth
Example: The kindergartners were told they needed to nourish their plant seeds with water and sunlight.

Word: Nourishment
Meaning: something that nourishes
Example: It amazes me that an infant can sustain all of its nourishment from its mother’s milk.

Word: Nous
Meaning: practical reasoning; Common sense
Example: Problem solving involves more than a high IQ; nous and practical reasoning are also required.

Word: Nouveau riche
Meaning: someone who recently became wealthy
Example: After having many investments pay off last month; a nouveau riche bought a new sports car and house after trading in his broken-down car and shack.

Word: Novation
Meaning: to enter into a new agreement or contract with the same or similar terms when a previous agreement has ended or fallen through
Example: When his contract with the construction company for his roof was up; he made a novation to a less expensive company to finish the rest of the work.

Word: Novel 
Meaning: unique; original
Example: The studio is looking for novel concepts to turn into original television series.

Word: Novelty 
Meaning: a new item
Example: Everyone is waiting to see what novelty the toy manufacturer will come out with next.

Word: Novice
Meaning: inexperienced
Example: When it came to coding complicated functions; the inexperienced coder was a novice.

Word: Novitiate
Meaning: the act or time of starting a religious group
Example: During the nun’s novitiate; she learned the daily tasks she was to accomplish each day under the priest’s orders.

Word: Now
Meaning: happening presently
Example: Since the final exam for my English Literature class is in thirty minutes; I need to study now for it.

Word: Nowadays
Meaning: currently
Example: “Cursing is so common nowadays;” said Grandpa; “because we never would have said anything impolite in public when I was your age.”

Word: Nowhere
Meaning: never in any location or area
Example: After looking down the aisles and in each nook and cranny; the panicky mother realized that her son was nowhere in the store.

Word: Nowise
Meaning: in no way
Example: Her speech dragged on forever and made the audience lose interest since she is nowise providing important information to them.

Word: Noxious
Meaning: harmful
Example: Besides being annoying; the mosquito is a noxious insect that can carry and transmit a number of potentially fatal diseases.

Word: Nuance
Meaning:  a subtle distinction or variation
Example: Please be quiet so I can hear every nuance of the song!

Word: Nub
Meaning: a slight projecting bump
Example: When the puppy’s tail was cut off at birth; it only grew a little nub making it difficult to see if the puppy was wagging his tail.

Word: Nuclear
Meaning: pertaining to an atomic binding that can be dangerous
Example: After North Korea was found making nuclear weapons which scared the rest of the world that a disaster might take place.

Word: Nucleolus
Meaning: the center spherical part of the nucleus that has a connection with DNA and RNA
Example: Scientists study the nucleolus of each cell in order to determine the genetic make-up involving the person’s DNA.

Word: Nucleotide
Meaning: the fundamental components of RNA and DNA
Example: In order to fully understand a person’s genetic makeup; the scientist will have to first analyze the person’s nucleotide.

Word: Nucleus 
Meaning: the key element of a person; place; or thing upon which everything else is connected
Example: At the core of our business is the software department; the nucleus of our company that creates the products we sell.

Word: Nudge
Meaning: a slight shove or bump from someone or something
Example: “If you hear someone talking during the test;” said the teacher; “then nudge them so they will be quiet.”

Word: Nugatory
Meaning: having no worth or value; useless
Example: Jim’s nugatory comments contributed nothing to the class discussion.

Word: Nuisance
Meaning: a thing or individual that makes one irritated
Example: Until Jill planted a vegetable garden; she never knew a raccoon could be such a nuisance.

Word: Null
Meaning: worthless or unfounded in the legal sense
Example: When the man learned he had hired a 17-year old; he knew his landscaping contract would be null and void since an adult can’t contract with a minor.

Word: Nullification 
Meaning: the action of making something ineffective or null
Example: The referee’s nullification of the touchdown cost the home team the game.

Word: Nullify
Meaning: make of no use or value; cancel out
Example: Hopefully the coffee will nullify the drowsy effects of the medication and allow me to stay awake.

Word: Numb
Meaning: the decrease or absence of feeling in a body part
Example: Downing the frozen yogurt in under two minutes caused a numb sensation in his lips and a strong brain freeze.

Word: Numbly
Meaning: emotionlessly or without expression
Example: After hearing excuse after excuse; the teacher listened numbly to her student’s twentieth excuse for not having his homework.

Word: Numbness
Meaning: the decrease or absence of feeling
Example: Fearful of frostbite subsided for the trapped snow skier when the numbness started to go away and the man could feel the touch of his feet.

Word: Numeral
Meaning: something signifying a number
Example: Using Roman numeral five meant that I wrote a capital V on my outline.

Word: Numerator
Meaning: the top number of a fraction
Example: If you divide the numerator by the denominator; you will be able to determine the percentage of something.

Word: Numerical
Meaning: pertaining to numerals
Example: In order to decode the message; someone would have to determine the numerical representation for each letter.

Word: Numerous
Meaning: frequent; various or several
Example: After being given numerous warnings for disrupting class; Thomas was finally sent to the principal’s office.

Word: Numinous
Meaning: displaying a holy or sacred characteristics
Example: After months of digging at the ancient burial site; an archaeologist uncovered a numinous artifact from the civilization’s ceremonial chamber.

Word: Numismatist
Meaning: a professional coin or medal collector
Example: To find out the true value of his coin collection; the man sought an accredited numismatist.

Word: Nuncupative
Meaning: declared orally and not written
Example: The sick man gave his nuncupative will on his deathbed; and his spoken words were later turned into a legal document.

Word: Nuptials
Meaning: a ceremony of marriage
Example: The royal nuptials are scheduled to take place on June 30 in St. Mark’s Cathedral.

Word: Nurse
Meaning: to care for someone or something that is typically below optimal health
Example: My daughter did not listen to me when I told her to leave the stray cat alone; but I guess it is alright since her efforts helped nurse the starving animal back to health.

Word: Nurse
Meaning: a person trained to take care of the sick or injured
Example: Because she is a nurse; Britany knows how to take care of sick patients.

Word: Nurture
Meaning: to help a person or thing thrive
Example: Good parents nurture their children so they will become happy and healthy adults.

Word: Nutcase
Meaning: a person who acts very crazy or foolish
Example: Because he continued to act like a nutcase; the police were called on the ranting driver raving in the street.

Word: Nutjob
Meaning: a person who displays irrational or idiotic behaviors
Example: As the nutjob was spouting gibberish to himself as he walked down the street; many pedestrians avoided him as much as possible.

Word: Nutrition
Meaning: the intake of food needed to sustain a healthy balance within the body
Example: Good nutrition combined with adequate rest will help the ailing woman return to her once vibrant self.

Word: Nutritious
Meaning: healthy and beneficial to feed the body
Example: The cafeteria cooks healthy meals that are both nutritious and tasty.

Word: Nuzzle 
Meaning: to touch softly with the nose
Example: When I am sad; my dog will nuzzle me with his nose.

Word: Oaf
Meaning: someone known for being dumb
Example: Since the oaf never performed very well in school; he became lazy by living for years in his parent’s basement never being able to gain employment.

Word: Oars
Meaning: flat blades that are used to row a boat
Example: Pulling on both oars; the levers propelled the boat through the water.

Word: Oasis
Meaning: a haven from something unpleasant or tiring
Example: After spending twelve hours in the car; we felt as though our hotel was our oasis.

Word: Oath
Meaning: a solemn promise
Example: Jurors convicted the man of lying during trial while under oath.

Word: Obdurate
Meaning: unmoved by persuasion; pity; or tender feelings; stubborn
Example: With his obdurate personality and intense dislike for people; Jonathan had all the makings of a professional killer.

Word: Obedience
Meaning: behavior that is meets the demands of others
Example: Even the city’s best obedience trainer could not gain control of the unruly pup.

Word: Obedient
Meaning: conforming or submitting to someone’s wishes or demands
Example: Only obedient children were permitted to participate in the field trip since the teachers could trust their behavior to be appropriate at the museum.

Word: Obeisance
Meaning: a respectful obedient attitude
Example: In my family; we say a prayer before each meal to show obeisance and thanks.

Word: Obelisk
Meaning: a 4-sided rectangular shaped column that comes to a triangular point at the top
Example: While touring Washington D.C. for the first time in my life; I identified the tall obelisk as the Washington Monument.

Word: Obesity
Meaning: the state of being excessively overweight
Example: Doctors were concerned about his patient who had always been a large boy; but now he had reached the level of obesity by medical standards due to his size.

Word: Obey
Meaning: to act in accordance with the rules or someone’s wishes
Example: Billy was a model student to his teachers because he would actively participate in class and obey all the rules.

Word: Obfuscate
Meaning: to deliberately make something confusing or difficult to understand
Example: The loan contract was filled with legal words meant to obfuscate trusting borrowers.

Word: Obituary
Meaning: a notice of death that provides background information about the deceased
Example: The lone obituary was mistakenly listed in the paper under job postings instead of death notices.

Word: Objectify
Meaning: to reduce a person’s status and treat them negatively
Example: The boy’s mother refuses to let him listen to rap songs that objectify women or portray them in a negative way.

Word: Objection
Meaning: a purpose for opposing or protesting a statement or action
Example: Everyone frowned when the father of the bride unjustly stated his objection to the marriage for the lovely young couple.

Word: Objectionable
Meaning: insulting or upsetting actions or behaviors
Example: Since there was objectionable content in the movie; the teenager’s mother refused to let her daughter see the movie with her friends.

Word: Objective
Meaning: that which is sought; a particular task or goal
Example: The objective of my resume is to obtain a position in the company’s quality assurance department.

Word: Objectivity
Meaning: the condition of having an unbiased opinion
Example: The judge was removed from the bench because he lacked objectivity when listening to cases associated with minority defendants.

Word: Objurgate
Meaning: to admonish or yell firmly at someone or something
Example: After the toddler had a temper tantrum in the store; the angry mother would objurgate her son in his face for ten minutes.

Word: Obligate
Meaning: to be required or forced
Example: All citizens of the United States must obligate to vote in every election as their civic duty.

Word: Obligation
Meaning: something you must do because of a law; a promise; rule; etc.
Example: Even though attendees were invited to the candle party; they were under no obligation to purchase anything.

Word: Obligatory
Meaning: required by law or a set of rules
Example: As part of my obligatory court sentence; I must complete sixty hours of community service.

Word: Oblige
Meaning: perform a good deed for someone
Example: Since my neighbor cuts my grass for free; I am happy to oblige him with a ride to the store.

Word: Obliging
Meaning: accommodating; willing to be of assistance
Example: The obliging clerk was pleased to answer my numerous questions about the store.

Word: Oblique
Meaning: not in a straightforward manner
Example: The slight wink was Larry’s oblique way of flirting with me.

Word: Obliterate
Meaning: to destroy
Example: The dictator’s army is going to obliterate the rebel’s small village in less than five minutes.

Word: Oblivion
Meaning: the condition of being unaware or uninformed
Example: After I was given the sedative; I was in complete oblivion and unaware of my surroundings.

Word: Oblivious
Meaning: unaware of what is present or occurring
Example: The huge dog closed its eyes and appeared oblivious to the crawling baby.

Word: Oblong
Meaning: possessing an elongated figure; like an oval or rectangle
Example:  The skating rink was oblong shaped and resembled a large oval.

Word: Obloquy
Meaning: shame from public disapproval
Example: After being released from prison; Kurt lived in obloquy and rarely left his apartment.

Word: Obnoxious
Meaning: disagreeable in a way that disgusts other people
Example: Nobody wanted to talk to the obnoxious man.

Word: Obnubilate
Meaning: to obscure or darken something
Example: If a cloud passes in front of the sun; it will obnubilate the ground beneath it; creating shade and making everything darker.

Word: Obscene
Meaning: vile; disgusting
Example: I wish adult websites would stop sending me obscene emails!

Word: Obscure
Meaning: relatively unknown
Example: The obscure writer was not known in the literary community.

Word: Obscurity 
Meaning: the condition of being unknown
Example: The teen heartthrob came out of obscurity and became one of the most famous entertainers in the world.

Word: Obsequies
Meaning: a funeral service
Example: Last week; obsequies for the deceased students were held at the cemetery.

Word: Obsequious
Meaning: Excessively submissive; overly obedient
Example: The princess had obsequious servants who showered her with attention.

Word: Observance
Meaning: the act of conforming to situations and following rules
Example: Good students are in observance of the classroom rules by raising their hand to answer a question; speaking politely to others and keeping their hands and feet to themselves.

Word: Observant
Meaning: to notice or detect things quickly
Example: Dr. Mills’ observant personality enabled her to be a great detective since she could determine if a suspect was lying.

Word: Observation
Meaning: that which is noticed by observing or listening
Example: During our observation; we watched the solution change colors.

Word: Observe
Meaning: to watch cautiously and seriously
Example: “If you observe anything suspicious;” said the school’s security officer; “you must report it to the office immediately for the safety of the school.

Word: Observer
Meaning: someone who watches an event but doesn’t participate
Example: Although she was only an observer; Emily enjoyed watching the other people on the trip swim with the dolphins.

Word: Obsession
Meaning: the control of one’s thoughts about something or someone
Example: Billy’s ex-girlfriend was deemed a stalker due to her obsession with him by always watching; calling and thinking about him.

Word: Obsessive
Meaning: totally fixated on something or someone in a way that is unhealthy
Example: Because of his obsessive disorder; the patient focuses on washing his hands most of the day.

Word: Obsidian
Meaning: a dark black rock created from cooled lava with relatively no crystals in it
Example: Since the obsidian was easy to break; pieces of it were carved to make knives used in surgical procedures.

Word: Obsolescence
Meaning: becoming outdated
Example: Since the granite countertops were such an obsolescence in the neighborhood homes; the builder knew he would need to upgrade to higher quality materials like marble.

Word: Obsolete
Meaning: no longer of use
Example: Many people believe the Internet has made the postal service obsolete.

Word: Obstacle
Meaning: anything that impedes or stops something from advancing or developing
Example: Having a bankruptcy in my background would be a difficult obstacle to overcome in financing a new house.

Word: Obstinacy
Meaning: the quality of refusing to be reasonable and change your behavior; plans; or ideas; stubborness
Example: Although the detectives grilled the witness for hours; his obstinacy in sticking to his story finally convinced them that he was telling the truth.

Word: Obstinate
Meaning: stubbornly refusing to change one's opinion or action; very difficult to change or persuade; refusing to obey
Example: Everyone described my grandfather as the most obstinate man alive!

Word: Obstreperous
Meaning: noisy and difficult to control
Example: Because my nephew is obstreperous; he often gets in trouble at school.

Word: Obstruct
Meaning: to block or fill with obstacles
Example: I have a hard time driving through the downtown because of all the bikers who continually obstruct traffic.

Word: Obstruction
Meaning: that which prevents progress; an impediment
Example: In addition to causing Gary great pain; the bowel obstruction is also preventing him from releasing waste.

Word: Obtain 
Meaning: to secure or acquire something
Example: My daughter must obtain a copy of her immunization records before she can start school.

Word: Obtainable
Meaning: something that is capable of being acquired
Example: Her only obtainable goal was to make straight A’s since she was too short for the basketball team and too clumsy for cheerleading.

Word: Obtest
Meaning: to beseech or beg; usually a deity
Example: Although I obtest the Lord every night; my prayer has yet to be answered.

Word: Obtrude
Meaning: to interrupt in an unpleasant manner
Example: Please silence your phones so they do not obtrude upon our meeting.

Word: Obtrusive
Meaning: obvious in an unlikable way
Example: The vinegar in the sauce was obtrusive and ruined the taste of the steak.

Word: Obtuse
Meaning: not able to think clearly or to understand what is obvious or simple
Example: Are you so obtuse that you will give away all your money to a fake charity?

Word: Obtuseness
Meaning: a condition of lacking intelligence; stupidity
Example: In an attempt to hide his obtuseness on the subject; the student remained quiet during the discussion.

Word: Obverse
Meaning: the reverse or foil of a certainty or fact
Example: While I thought my parents would be happy I got a job; the obverse was true when they learned I’d be working in a strip club.

Word: Obviate
Meaning: to prevent or eliminate
Example: We replaced the old mechanisms because we wanted to obviate any nervousness about potential breakdown.

Word: Obvious
Meaning: noticeable and likely to be determined
Example: When the child touched the hot stove with his hand; his obvious reaction would be to never touch the stove again.

Word: Obviously
Meaning: clearly; in a way that is easy to see and understand
Example: Obviously wanting the boy to ask her to dance; the girl tapped her foot impatiently.

Word: Occasion
Meaning: a particular and significant event or incident
Example: “This isn’t just any anniversary;” said the grandson; “it is a special occasion for Grandma and Grandpa to celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary.

Word: Occasionally
Meaning: from time to time
Example: Before our relationship turned serious; we began meeting occasionally at a coffee shop that both of us enjoyed.

Word: Occidental
Meaning: pertaining to the countries in the western hemisphere
Example: Visitors from Thailand state that the occidental food at the restaurant tasted unusual since they were not familiar with this country’s food.

Word: Occlude
Meaning: to close up or block off
Example: The police officers have blocked off the road to occlude the bomb from the public.

Word: Occult
Meaning: relating to magical or supernatural abilities
Example: The occult show about a group of teenage witches living together is one of the highest rated shows on television.

Word: Occupancy
Meaning: living in or currently staying in a house or structure
Example: Building codes required a maximum occupancy of 125 people in the restaurant which was based on the number of exits.

Word: Occupant
Meaning: someone who lives or is currently in a house or other structure
Example: Once the occupant realized the apartment building was on fire; she knew it was imperative to leave her possessions behind and exit the building immediately.

Word: Occupation
Meaning: an industry or service for which someone makes a living
Example: In the accounting occupation; the young man was hired specifically to be the accounts receivable clerk since he had prior experience doing that type of work.

Word: Occupy
Meaning: to live in or inhabit a place
Example: Landlords may expect damage to their houses if college students are expected to occupy their apartments or houses.

Word: Occur
Meaning: to take place; happen
Example: There was no way to predict when the earthquake would occur; but scientists were certain it would happen.

Word: Occurrence
Meaning: an instance or happening
Example: Haley’s Comet is an occurrence that takes place approximately every seventy-six years.

Word: Octagon
Meaning: an 8 equally sided shape
Example: Rainbow colors reflected onto the wall through an octagon as the light shines through the many surfaces of the prism.

Word: Octave
Meaning: a level of eight notes found in a musical scale
Example: The singer was known for astounding clarity over her entire five octave range. 

Word: Octogenarian
Meaning: one who is between the age of 80 and 89
Example: My neighbor was an octogenarian and needed assistance addressing his 88th birthday invitations.

Word: Ocular
Meaning: associated with vision or eyesight
Example: Ocular pain forced me to call my eye doctor.

Word: Oculist
Meaning: an out-of-date term which refers to either an ophthalmologist or optometrist
Example: The oculist gave me a prescription for new eyeglasses.

Word: Oddball
Meaning: strange and different from the normal
Example: Junior is the only oddball in our group of friends that don’t eat seafood.

Word: Oddity
Meaning: an unusually strange person; thing; or event
Example: The lanky man and his petite wife are always looked at like an oddity in public.

Word: Ode
Meaning: a poem that praises or celebrates something
Example: Phil created lyrics for the choir that were an ode to his alma mater.

Word: Odious
Meaning: unpleasant; repulsive
Example: Because Mark had an odious personality; he had very few friends.

Word: Odium
Meaning: loathing for a thing or person deemed to be despicable
Example: The public’s odium towards the congressman is an advantage for the candidate opposing him in the election.

Word: Odometer
Meaning: an instrument used to measure how far a vehicle has travelled
Example: Odometer fraud is illegal; but that doesn’t stop scammers from rolling back the miles on used vehicles.

Word: Odor
Meaning: a distinctive smell
Example: A strong stench filled the room; causing the guests to gag at the odor.

Word: Odoriferous
Meaning: producing an unpleasant scent
Example: After eating six burritos; my brother turned the bathroom into an odoriferous chamber.

Word: Odorous
Meaning: giving off a strong scent
Example: The odorous smell of tobacco filled the crowded room.

Word: Odyssey
Meaning: a lengthy journey during which many events occur
Example: My twenty-year odyssey in the army allowed me to visit eighteen countries.

Word: Oenophile
Meaning: a connoisseur or person who loves wine
Example: Swishing the Pinot Nior around in her mouth; the oenophile savored the taste of the red wine.

Word: Oeuvre 
Meaning: the entire collection of work belonging to an artist; writer; or musical composer
Example: The painter’s oeuvre includes over forty paintings and is characterized by the artist’s vivid depiction of nature.

Word: Off-guard
Meaning: unprepared and unready
Example: The other vehicle caught the driver off-guard and blindsided him as It slammed into the side of the truck.

Word: Off-putting
Meaning: unsettlingly unpleasant and repellent
Example: The hateful man’s off-putting attitude left him alone and without anyone to care for him.

Word: Offal
Meaning: the discarded elements of a procedure; in particularly; the leftover animal parts from processed meat
Example: The dog food is made from the offal that remains after the chicken is cut and processed.

Word: Offend
Meaning: to cause another to feel upset or angry
Example: My grandfather never fails to offend someone when bringing up sensitive subjects over dinner.

Word: Offense
Meaning: a violation of a law or rule
Example: Though it was only his first offense; the judge decided to sentence the criminal to a lengthy prison stay.

Word: Offensive
Meaning: hateful or hurtful
Example: The offensive letter was given to the principal so he could try to find the writer of the hateful note.

Word: Offer
Meaning: present something to someone for acceptance; refusal or consideration
Example: Bobby rejected his sister’s offer to help clean his room so he wouldn’t have to pay her. 

Word: Offhand
Meaning: impromptu and without previous thought or consideration
Example: He couldn’t recall the specific amount offhand; but the accountant was sure that an unusually large deposit had appeared earlier that day.

Word: Official
Meaning: certified by an authoritative person
Example: With the official document in hand; Patricia would be able to enter the United States since it had been signed by the proper authorities.

Word: Officiate
Meaning: to be in charge of leading an event or ceremony
Example: The bride’s father was flattered when asked to officiate his daughter’s wedding.

Word: Officious
Meaning: offensively intrusive or interfering
Example: Because Cory is the boss’s son; he thinks he can stick his officious nose into everybody’s business without fear of consequences.

Word: Offset
Meaning: the distance or amount by which something is out of line
Example: Eying the painting on the wall; the gallery owner pondered whether the crooked frame was offset by a few centimeters.

Word: Offshore
Meaning: located some distance from the shore
Example: A roaring sound coming from offshore was the first signal of the devastating typhoon.

Word: Offspring
Meaning: the young ones produced by a plant or animal
Example: Scientists are using Punnett squares to predict the physical characteristics of the offspring of two plants.

Word: Oft
Meaning: occurring often
Example: The oft-quoted poet is famous now but unknown during his lifetime.

Word: Ogle 
Meaning: to look at in a suggestive manner
Example: Because the women feel the construction workers ogle them; they hate to walk by the unfinished building.

Word: Ogre
Meaning: a man-eating giant found in fairytales and legends
Example: The ogre tossed the sailors into the river; devouring the ones he thought would be most tasty.

Word: Ointment
Meaning: a cream rubbed on the skin for medicinal purposes
Example: Antibiotic ointment was applied to the wound to keep bacteria at bay.

Word: Oleaginous
Meaning: oily; greasy
Example: From the excess shine and acne on her face; you can tell Olivia has an oleaginous skin problem.

Word: Olfactory
Meaning: pertaining to the smell sense
Example: Because my brother has straws in his nose; his olfactory sense is not picking up the odors coming from the kitchen.

Word: Oligarchy
Meaning: a territory or group that is controlled by only a few individuals
Example: In our small religious community; the major decisions of the town are made by the oligarchy; which is composed of six wise men.

Word: Oligopoly
Meaning: an economic market structure where a few companies or countries control all of the goods and services
Example: The railroad industry was once an oligopoly as only a few corporations had a stake in the operations.

Word: Ombre
Meaning: having colors or tones that shade into each other
Example: The hairstylist’s client wants ombre locks that fade from dark to blond tones.

Word: Ombudsman
Meaning: a person who investigates complaints and mediates fair settlements especially between citizens and government officials
Example: Without an ombudsman to help mediate; the mayor’s office and the angered couple were forced to work things out themselves.

Word: Omen
Meaning: a sign something is going to occur
Example: Many people view the sighting of a black cat as a bad omen.

Word: Ominous
Meaning: suggesting that something bad is going to happen in the future
Example: Because of the ominous music; we knew something bad was about to happen in the movie.

Word: Omission
Meaning: something that was not included or present
Example: The omission of my name from the Honor Roll List made me regret the fact I had played around all semester.

Word: Omit 
Meaning: to leave out or exclude
Example: Janice was angry because she thought I chose to purposely omit her name from my party list.

Word: Omnibus
Meaning: a mode of transportation produced to carry a large number of passengers; often referred to as a bus
Example: In our neighborhood; most of the children ride an omnibus to school each day.

Word: Omnifarious
Meaning: assorted; of many varieties and kinds
Example: The busy high schooler has ominfarious interests and does everything from snowboard to mountain climb.

Word: Omnific
Meaning: possessing unlimited power to create anything
Example: The sculptor seemed omnific; molding any material into a wonderful masterpiece.

Word: Omnipotent
Meaning: having virtually unlimited power or influence
Example: My teenager daughter likes to believe she is omnipotent in our household.

Word: Omnipresent 
Meaning: able to be everywhere at one time
Example: The soccer coach described his star player as being omnipresent; all over the field at once.

Word: Omniscient
Meaning: having total knowledge; all-knowing
Example: Melanie felt that it was important to know what every character was thinking; so she wrote her novel from an omniscient point of view.

Word: Omnivorous
Meaning: eating both plants and animals
Example: Because my rabbit only eats plants; it is not omnivorous.

Word: Omphaloskepsis
Meaning: a reflection process involved in looking at or becoming fascinated with your belly button
Example: As the quiet group of eccentric people stood bent over at the waist; their location for their omphaloskepsis at the public park made passersby stare at them.

Word: Oncology
Meaning: the examination and analysis of cancer
Example: After detecting a tumor in the man’s brain; his family physician knew to refer him to a specialist of oncology.

Word: Oncoming
Meaning: approaching or moving toward a particular point
Example: The man walked out into oncoming traffic and was almost hit by a car speeding his way.

Word: One-dimensional
Meaning: superficial; lacking depth
Example: After several dates with the shallow woman; Leo decided he couldn’t date someone to one-dimensional.

Word: One-off
Meaning: something that is made or happens only once
Example: Because it was a one-off season; the champion team never went 13-0 again.

Word: One-up
Meaning: to do better than someone else
Example: Joe and his brother are very competitive; always trying to one-up each other while playing sports.

Word: One-upmanship
Meaning: the practice of outdoing a competitor by always staying one step ahead
Example: Committing himself to one-upmanship; the basketball player always rubbed his wins in his rival’s face.

Word: Onerous
Meaning: involving great effort and difficulty
Example: Taking care of the puppy is an onerous task.

Word: Oneself
Meaning: the person; previously mentioned including yourself
Example: In spite of all the drama portrayed in the news lately; it’s important to think of oneself in these matters. 

Word: Ongoing
Meaning: to continue to happen
Example: Her ongoing nausea started last week and had not stopped; so the woman decided to visit her family doctor.

Word: Onlookers
Meaning: people who are watching an event or situation take place but not directly participating
Example: Several onlookers witnessed the speeding car crash into the back of a truck parked at a red light.

Word: Onomatopoeia
Meaning: a word that has the same sound as its pronunciation
Example: One example of onomatopoeia is the word “buzz”.

Word: Onset
Meaning: at the start of something
Example: Arguments plagued the adult children about what to do with the matriarch of the family due to her onset of dementia.

Word: Onslaught
Meaning: a fierce attack
Example: After the apartment fire; there was an onslaught of frustrated people displaced from their homes.

Word: Ontology
Meaning: the area of metaphysics that focuses on the characteristics of life
Example: Since Jim has a strong fascination with human existence; he has decided to major in ontology.

Word: Onus
Meaning: the responsibility for something
Example: It is the onus of the applicant to completely fill out the application materials.

Word: Onward
Meaning: progressing ahead
Example: “Onward; men we go!” shouted the army sergeant to his troops noticing the enemy in the near distance.

Word: Oomph
Meaning: strength; power; passion or effectiveness
Example: You need to put some oomph into your acting.

Word: Ooze
Meaning: to trickle or seep out slowly
Example: Ink seemed to ooze from the pen creating a small blue stain on my brand new pants.

Word: Opacity
Meaning: a blurriness or cloudiness look to something
Example: Due to the opacity of the lenses in my glasses; I could not read the print on the pages of my book.

Word: Opalescent
Meaning: multi-colored; rainbowlike
Example: The opalescent star sparkled with all the amazing colors of the rainbow.

Word: Opaque
Meaning: not able to be seen through
Example: Because my privacy is important to me; I have opaque blinds on all my windows.

Word: Open primary
Meaning: an election that does not require voters to be a member of a particular political party to take part
Example: Because she is a registered voter; Anna will be able to take part of the open primary next month.

Word: Open-minded
Meaning: being willing to accept others’ thoughts and beliefs
Example: Several open-minded people agreed with the farfetched idea that the world is round.

Word: Openness
Meaning: the act of being exposed
Example: Most people today want an openness in the house so that the living room; dining room and kitchen are unrestricted from each other.

Word: Opera
Meaning: a theatrical production including loud vocals
Example: When the conductor led the opera; the singers and musicians performed their very best for the audience.

Word: Operate
Meaning: to be in action; work
Example: The air conditioner won't cool the house and needs to be looked at because it won’t operate properly. 

Word: Operative
Meaning: to become fully functional
Example: You must set up a network name; router; and password for the WiFi to become fully operative.

Word: Operose
Meaning: to be done strenuously and laboriously
Example: Once the spoiled teenager was sent to work in the fields; she learned the responsibility and diligence after the first day of operose work.

Word: Opiate
Meaning: an opium based medication prescribed as a sleep aid or pain reliever
Example: After Richard was injured in a car accident; he was given an opiate for pain management.

Word: Opine
Meaning: to give an opinion
Example: Rather than disagree with my husband in public; I waited until we got home to opine my thoughts on the subject.

Word: Opinion
Meaning: a belief or outlook that is often based on feeling and not fact
Example: The preacher stood firm in his opinion and wouldn’t believe anything the scientist said about dinosaurs.

Word: Opinionated 
Meaning: very certain of one’s views or opinions
Example: Because Tessa is so opinionated; she disregards the opinions of other people in favor of her own views.

Word: Opponent
Meaning: a rival or challenger
Example: Bill wondered who his opponent would be in the first round of the karate tournament.

Word: Opportune 
Meaning: at a useful or convenient moment
Example: With all of the mobile applications being sold for millions of dollars; now is an opportune time to become a mobile developer.

Word: Opportunist 
Meaning: path an individual who will take advantage of a circumstance to better his or her situation
Example: The sleazy hotel owner was an opportunist who took advantage of the hurricane to raise his room rates.

Word: Opportunistic
Meaning: used to describe someone who take’s advantage of an opportunity or situation for self-gain
Example: The opportunistic couple tried to take advantage of the elderly man; convincing him to sign over his home.

Word: Opportunity cost
Meaning: a benefit or profit that must be given up in order to gain something else
Example: My mother explained she could not buy two snacks and that popcorn would be our opportunity cost if we chose to get candy.

Word: Opportunity
Meaning: a strong likelihood for development or improvement
Example: Every opportunity was created for the students to succeed by providing tutoring services; peer assistance and parental involvement.

Word: Opposable thump
Meaning: a thumb that allows the digits to grasp and handle objects and is characteristic of primates
Example: Using his opposable thumb; the monkey gripped the tree and hung high above the jungle floor.

Word: Oppose
Meaning: to go against something
Example: Due to Sheila’s religious belief that life is precious; she would oppose the death penalty for any crime.

Word: Opposite
Meaning: something that is contrary to something else
Example: When I realized that traveling north on the interstate was wrong; I quickly went in the opposite direction and headed south.

Word: Opposition
Meaning: a challenger or an opposing opinion
Example: The politician’s opposition claims he has a history of sexually harassing women.

Word: Oppress
Meaning: to hold down through use of force or fear
Example: The dictator uses fear to oppress his people.

Word: Oppressive
Meaning: overwhelming; restricting
Example: Because I am very sensitive to the oppressive heat; I tend to spend most of the summer indoors.

Word: Oppressor
Meaning: one who dominates someone by hard work or slavery
Example: Under the communist government; many citizens felt the suffering and persecution at the hands of the oppressor.

Word: Opprobrious
Meaning: conveying shame or contempt
Example: Elaine was offended by her friends’ opprobrious remarks about her drunken behavior.

Word: Opprobrium
Meaning: the disgrace incurred by conduct considered outrageously shameful
Example: Ben’s criminal opprobrium nearly cost him the election.

Word: Oppugn
Meaning: to doubt the authenticity of something
Example: During a presidential election; many politicians oppugn the ideas of the opposing party by providing proof of their wrongdoings.

Word: Opt
Meaning: to make a selection
Example: After receiving many worthless advertisements in her email; Cynthia decided to opt out of receiving any emails from unknown senders.

Word: Optic
Meaning: pertaining to the eye
Example: Incessant exposure to bright light created optic damage to the patient resulting in being visually impaired.

Word: Optical
Meaning: of; or relating to sight; visual
Example: Using optical aids such as telescopes or microscopes give a clear view at what you’re looking at. 

Word: Optimism
Meaning: hopefulness about things to come
Example: Gail’s optimism allows her to believe anything is possible.

Word: Optimist
Meaning: one who always has a positive outlook
Example: As an optimist; I always believe tomorrow will be better than today.

Word: Optimistic
Meaning: hopeful about the future or a specific outcome
Example: Though we haven’t won a game all year; our team is still optimistic that today we will win.

Word: Optimum
Meaning: the best condition
Example: For my financial circumstances; the optimum loan would need to have an interest rate below four percent.

Word: Optometrist
Meaning: a doctor whose medical practice revolves around detecting and correcting vision problems
Example: Visiting the optometrist to have his eyes checked was quite an achievement for the overly nervous patient.

Word: Opulent
Meaning: extravagant and rich
Example: Because the movie star made over ten million dollars a film; she was able to maintain an opulent lifestyle.

Word: Opus
Meaning: a significant work from an artist; writer; or other creative individual
Example: The songwriter worked day and night on the opus he prayed would make him famous.

Word: Opuscule
Meaning: an insignificant literary; art; or musical work
Example: Although Shakespeare had many famous plays; the opuscule one performed by the cast was a little-known.

Word: Oracle
Meaning: an individual with great intelligence or a person who speaks for a deity
Example: The computer genius is viewed as the oracle of technology who changed the world.

Word: Oracular
Meaning: prophetic; predictive
Example: Oracular predictions proved to be true as the medium knew that Donald Trump would be elected president.

Word: Oration
Meaning: a ceremonial speech that is formal
Example: Although the pope’s oration lasted for only fifteen minutes; it left many in the audience in tears.

Word: Orator
Meaning: one who excels at speaking to an audience
Example: Thad is a much-liked orator who keeps people fully engaged while he is speaking.

Word: Orbit
Meaning: to move around something in a circular path
Example: The earth continues to orbit around the sun in a circular pattern.

Word: Orchard
Meaning: acreage where fruit trees are produced
Example: Apparently; the Apple Tree Restaurant acquired its apples for its dishes from the orchard that lined the road next to the restaurant.

Word: Orchestra
Meaning: a group of people who play musical instruments together
Example: The trumpet could be heard over all of the other instruments in the orchestra.

Word: Orchestrate
Meaning: to organize or plan all of the details of an event
Example: Cautious FBI agents were able to orchestrate the sting without setting off any red flags.

Word: Ordain
Meaning: to deliver a decree or confirm a person into a religious ministry
Example: If the church decides to ordain the convicted rapist as a deacon; many people will leave the congregation.

Word: Ordeal 
Meaning: a tough experience
Example: The eighteen-hour plane trip was an ordeal for my hyperactive toddler.

Word: Order
Meaning: to request something be supplied; made; or served
Example: At the restaurant; I always order the pasta; and my mother requests a well-done steak.

Word: Order
Meaning: a request to supply goods to someone
Example: Sharon placed an order today online for clothes that are on clearance and was thrilled over the prices. 

Word: Orderly
Meaning: having a neat and organized system
Example: Orderly gardens surrounded by fences were lined in meticulous rows.

Word: Ordinance
Meaning: legislation or a decree
Example: The county ordinance prohibits smoking inside public establishments.

Word: Ordinarily
Meaning: usually; normally; or routinely
Example: Ordinarily I wouldn’t bother going outside before noon; but it’s snowing and I would like to play in it before it all melts.

Word: Ordinary
Meaning: normal; average
Example: Although it seemed extreme to others; working a 16 hour shift was part of the officer’s ordinary day.

Word: Ore
Meaning: element that naturally yields a metal
Example: After stumbling upon an abandoned mine; the experienced miner realized that ore could still be extracted here to produce iron.

Word: Organelle
Meaning: a specialized part of a cell
Example: An organelle is a structure inside of a living cell that has a specific role.

Word: Organic
Meaning: originating from living material
Example: The bakery features Italian baked goods made from purely organic; sustainable ingredients.

Word: Organism
Meaning: a distinct living creature
Example: The fish is an organism that must remain in water in order to live.

Word: Organization
Meaning: a group of individuals who come formally come together for a specific cause or purpose
Example: An emergency aid organization stepped in to provide medical care; shelter; and food supplies to Japan after a tsunami devastated the coast.

Word: Organize
Meaning: to arrange in a structured order
Example: The maid’s job is to organize all of the clothes in the drawers neatly.

Word: Organize
Meaning: to arrange for
Example: The president of the PTA will organize a fundraiser and are in need of volunteers for this next event. 

Word: Orgastic
Meaning: having a great pleasure of emotion
Example: With orgastic shock; I realized that I had just won the lottery and started to jump up and down for joy.

Word: Orgulous
Meaning: proud and arrogant
Example: At the company party; the snobbish analyst and her orgulous husband constantly bragged about their wealth.

Word: Orient 
Meaning: to push in the direction of a goal
Example: During the staff meeting supervisors will orient team members to their monthly objectives.

Word: Orientation
Meaning: the process of becoming familiar or acquainted with people or things
Example: In order for the new employees to understand the functions and interactions of the different departments at the company is by conducting a job orientation at the beginning of their employment.

Word: Oriented
Meaning: showing the direction towards something
Example: Often times college juniors and seniors contribute in helping freshman become oriented to college life. 

Word: Orifice
Meaning: an opening or cavity through which things move
Example: Your mouth is an orifice through which food and beverages travel into your body.

Word: Origin
Meaning: the place or situation from which a person or thing came forth
Example: My last name is Scottish in origin because both of my parents are of Scottish descent.

Word: Original
Meaning: the first or earliest example of something
Example: The original Van Gogh fainting sold for several million dollars while a copy costs on a few bucks.

Word: Originality
Meaning: the uniqueness or being first for something
Example: Due to the originality of the chef’s creations; the judges had never tasted anything like this dish before.

Word: Originate
Meaning: to occur or begin
Example: Did Gina originate the rumor after Kate kissed her boyfriend?

Word: Orison
Meaning: a devotion or request to a god
Example: When the devastating earthquake took place; the first responder on the scene whispered a quick orison in hopes of finding people alive.

Word: Ornament
Meaning: a decoration added onto something else to make it more beautiful
Example: The 3-year-old child hung the blue sparkling globe on the Christmas tree because it was his favorite ornament.

Word: Ornate
Meaning: extravagantly adorned or worded
Example: The uneducated man could not understand the ornate speech made by the Ivy League professor.

Word: Ornery
Meaning: crotchety; rude; or mean
Example: The ornery old man is always treating everyone around him very rudely; which is probably why nobody likes him.

Word: Orotund
Meaning: haughty in tone or style
Example: The millionaire’s orotund manner made him come across as arrogant.

Word: Orphanage
Meaning: a public institution for the care and protection of orphans
Example: Since their parents died in a plane crash; Paul and Kevin would go to an orphanage since no relatives would let them live in their houses.

Word: Orthodontist
Meaning: a doctor specializing in dental work for avoiding or improving uneven teeth
Example: An orthodontist required my daughter to get braces for two years since her front teeth were not in alignment with the other teeth.

Word: Orthodox
Meaning: common; familiar
Example: The minister called me an upstart when I dared to question his orthodox views.

Word: Orthography
Meaning: the aspect of language that is associated with spelling
Example: While the punctuation in the paper was fine; the writing contained many misspellings that revealed a weakness in orthography.

Word: Orthopedic
Meaning: abnormalities relating to the bones or skeleton of a human
Example: Following the car crash; his orthopedic injury would require setting the broken bone of his leg back into place.

Word: Oscillate
Meaning: to swing back and forth
Example: Though you cannot see it; sound waves constantly oscillate as they travel through the air.

Word: Osculate
Meaning: to caress with one's lips or kiss
Example: As a teen; I don’t enjoy seeing my parents osculate each other because their smooching is gross.

Word: Osmosis
Meaning: the capability to comprehend things without exertion
Example: Because Gail never studies but always does well on exams; she must learn through osmosis.

Word: Ossify
Meaning: to become firm in a certain way
Example: My father’s opinion has started to ossify so I know he won’t change his mind.

Word: Ostensible
Meaning: appearing as such but not necessarily so
Example: Your ostensible prank has done a lot of damage; and now you must face the consequences of your actions.

Word: Ostensibly
Meaning: to all outward appearances
Example: Although Clyde had plans to spend the day with his mistress; ostensibly he appeared to be getting ready for work by packing his brief case.

Word: Ostentatious
Meaning: intended to attract notice and impress others in an extreme and unnecessary way
Example: I tried to tell Mary her fur coat was a bit too ostentatious to be worn at a funeral!

Word: Osteoporosis
Meaning: bone disease
Example: Bob was diagnosed with osteoporosis because his leg bones were brittle and weak.

Word: Ostracize
Meaning: exclude someone
Example: As a teacher; your job is not to ostracize your students but to show them support so they can become contributing members of society.

Word: Otherwise
Meaning: in other respects; apart from that
Example: The otherwise well-behaved child threw a massive temper tantrum in the store.

Word: Otherwise
Meaning: apart from that; in other ways
Example: Hannah and her twin had different colored eyes but were otherwise identical.

Word: Otherwise
Meaning: differently; in another way
Example: “Please put the cake away otherwise I may eat it all.” 

Word: Otherworldly
Meaning: closely connected to spiritual things or things of another realm
Example: When he closed his eyes; the man’s dreams took him to an otherworldly realm that seemed like heaven.

Word: Otiose
Meaning: not useful
Example: Attempting to get Beth to change her mind is otiose because she is totally inflexible.

Word: Ouch
Meaning: an exclamation of hurt or pain
Example: She yelled; “Ouch!” as she tumbled down the stairs breaking her arm.

Word: Ought
Meaning: must or should
Example: After being insulted for the tenth time that day; the store clerk thought there ought to be a law against rudeness.

Word: Ourselves
Meaning: myself and at least one other person together
Example: We would walk to school by ourselves because our parents had to go to work early that morning.

Word: Oust
Meaning: to banish or kick out
Example: Environmental specialists would prefer to oust herbicides because they can cause health problems and diseases to many people.

Word: Out of the Blue
Meaning: without warning
Example: I was driving along the road at night when a deer jumped out at me out of the blue; wrecking the front of my car.

Word: Out-of-towner
Meaning: a person from outside of a particular town or city
Example: Everyone in Boston could tell that Jackie was an out-of-towner because of her New Jersey accent.

Word: Outbreak
Meaning: a quick increase in an action or number of something
Example: After having chicken pox as a child; I am susceptible to getting an outbreak of shingles since the virus is already in my system.

Word: Outburst
Meaning: a quick discharge of someone’s feelings
Example: The man’s outburst of profanity startled everyone as they noticed his reddened face.

Word: Outcast
Meaning: someone who is excluded from a group
Example: After calling the police at a party; the teenager became an outcast among her friends and classmates.

Word: Outcome
Meaning: an action that takes place after a triggering event
Example: When the jury filed back into the courtroom; the outcome of the trial was delivered to the packed courtroom.

Word: Outcry
Meaning: a loud utterance or yell
Example: An outcry from the peasants for the poor working conditions forced the landowner to make changes due to their complaints.

Word: Outfit
Meaning: to provide with attire or equipment
Example: We will need to outfit our soldiers with the proper protection if we want them to survive the rigors of combat.

Word: Outfox
Meaning: to con or trick someone using keen and smart ways
Example: Using his wit and finesse; the veteran defense attorney was able to outfox any lead witness into saying incriminating information about themselves.

Word: Outgoing
Meaning: sociable and friendly
Example: Due to her outgoing personality; Kim made friends who always wanted to be around her.

Word: Outlandish 
Meaning: very unusual
Example: Jim’s outlandish plan to get money involves robbing a bank with water guns.

Word: Outlaw
Meaning: a criminal who has disobeyed the law but has not been captured yet
Example: Everyone who passed by the wanted poster of the dangerous outlaw wanted to find him so they could get the reward money.

Word: Outlet
Meaning: a large tube or opening where water flows out
Example: All my neighbors realized that my carpenter’s drill hit the underground pipe because water spewed from the outlet flooding my yard.

Word: Outlier
Meaning: an outsider
Example: The scholarship student was treated as an outlier by her wealthy peers.

Word: Outline
Meaning: outer edge of lines of a person; item or thing
Example: So that the text box would be noticeable on the poster; I decided to outline the box with a dark black marker.

Word: Outlook
Meaning: viewpoint on a topic
Example: Many men have a negative outlook on marriage because they are so scared of commitment.

Word: Outnumbered
Meaning: to be more than some other number or amount
Example: Knowing that they were outnumbered by their opponent; the small army decided to retreat from the battle.

Word: Output
Meaning: an object that is manufactured or created
Example: With hopes of increasing the amount of output of their computers; the factory hired several more workers.

Word: Outrage
Meaning: very mad with fury
Example: Outrage over the recent election resulted in many millions of people rioting in the streets in order for people to hear their point.

Word: Outraged
Meaning: mad; upset
Example: Outraged by the politician’s phony promises and unethical policies; the masses revolted.

Word: Outrageous
Meaning: shockingly distasteful or terrible
Example: My stern mother does not tolerate outrageous behavior at the dinner table.

Word: Outre
Meaning: weird and shocking
Example: During the Victorian era men wearing wigs were considered normal; but today it is thought to be outre.

Word: Outreach
Meaning: to offer or give aid or service
Example: When the police officer gave his new shoes to a homeless man; this outreach of sympathy was appreciated by the man.

Word: Outright
Meaning: to do something completely or instantly
Example: Kathy responded outright to the question that the teacher was asking even though the teacher asked the students to quietly write down their answers.

Word: Outset
Meaning: at the start of something
Example: Every character at the outset of the book was fully developed so that the reader knew everything about the characters prior to the plot.

Word: Outshine
Meaning: to surpass someone or something in ability or achievement
Example: The cheerleading squad is very competitive; so all of the girls on the team try to outshine each other.

Word: Outside
Meaning: the external or exterior area of a place
Example: “Do not color outside the lines;” the kindergarten teacher told her students; “because that would be messy.”

Word: Outskirts
Meaning: the outer edge of an area or town
Example: When Arthur died; he went to the outskirts of heaven before entering the pearly gates.

Word: Outsource
Meaning: to contract a job out to another person or place
Example: Many businesses outsource their projects to workers in the Philippines who will work for a much lower wage.

Word: Outspoken
Meaning: opinionated and frank
Example: Several of the outspoken candidates resorted to name calling during the presidential debate.

Word: Outstanding
Meaning: terrific and wonderful
Example: Samuel made an outstanding catch during his baseball game by reaching over the back wall to catch the ball.

Word: Outstretched
Meaning: to extend or stretch out
Example: Katie smiled and nodded as the senator shook her outstretched hand.

Word: Outstrip
Meaning: to move further
Example: Being trained for the Kentucky Derby; these horses outstrip any of the other horses running down the track.

Word: Outweigh
Meaning: for something to be more important or further along than something else
Example: Since the job paid much less and was more difficult; its disadvantages definitely outweigh the benefits.

Word: Outwit
Meaning: to be more cunning or brilliant over someone else
Example: In the song; “Devil Went Down to Georgia;” the boy was able to outwit the devil by playing his fiddle better.

Word: Ovation
Meaning: an excited cheer and clapping after a performance from the spectators
Example: After the blind man played a perfect sonata on the piano; the crowd gave him a standing ovation.

Word: Overage
Meaning: an excess or surplus by which a sum of money is greater than previously estimated
Example: The teacher used real money to show students how to calculate an overage or excess funds.

Word: Overall
Meaning: all parts; referring to the whole of something
Example: While the overall effectiveness of a squad is the most important thing in the military; it’s the skill of the individual soldiers that make the squad effective.

Word: Overarching
Meaning: primary or predominantly
Example: The boss set some overarching goals for his employees that they must work on immediately plus a few minor goals to do in their spare time.

Word: Overbearing
Meaning: overly bossy; domineering; or arrogant
Example: Debra has a tendency to act in an overbearing and domineering way which tends to turn Ted off.

Word: Overblown
Meaning: inflated or exaggerated
Example: The woman promised her husband that the debt amount listed was overblown and that she didn’t owe as much as the credit card company claimed.

Word: Overboard
Meaning: to do something to the extreme
Example: My mother always goes overboard with Christmas decorations; hanging lights and garland on every inch of the house.

Word: Overcast
Meaning: cloudy; gloomy
Example: The children wanted to go swimming; but the overcast day made it a little too cool to get into the pool.

Word: Overcome
Meaning: to succeed in dealing with a problem or difficulty
Example: Ted knows that he would have no problem speaking in public if he would only overcome his fears instead of running away from them.

Word: Overcompensate
Meaning: to take extreme measures to correct a perceived weakness; error; or problem
Example: The young mother tried to overcompensate for her lack of experience through buying her child lots of expensive gifts.

Word: Overdo
Meaning: to do too much of something
Example: If you overdo it in the gym; your muscles will be extremely sore in the morning.

Word: Overdone
Meaning: Overcooked (food)
Example: The overdone steak was so tough that I could barely cut into it with my fork.

Word: Overdose
Meaning: to take to much of something; specifically a drug
Example: Medicine bottles now have childproof caps that stop kids from being able to overdose on the pills.

Word: Overdue
Meaning: late; past due
Example: The overdue mother’s due date had passed a week ago and she couldn’t wait to have her baby.

Word: Overeat
Meaning: to eat too much food
Example: Because so many delicious dishes are served at our holiday dinners; I tend to overeat every Christmas.

Word: Overemphasize
Meaning: to overstress or exaggerate
Example: Jessie tends to overemphasize the negative parts of her life instead of focusing on the positive.

Word: Overhaul
Meaning: to assess and replace with something better or newer
Example: After the Bolsheviks assassinated the Romanovs; they began an overhaul of the Russian government and completely rewrote the laws.

Word: Overindulge
Meaning: to have too much of something you desire
Example: My husband Charlie hid the kids candy they received from Halloween so they wouldn’t overindulge.

Word: Overjoyed
Meaning: exceedingly happy
Example: The couple was overjoyed when they found out they were pregnant after being unable to conceive for years.

Word: Overkill
Meaning: an unnecessary excess of something
Example: 24 hours of TV coverage of the US election verged on overkill.

Word: Overlap
Meaning: to extend over something and cover it partially
Example: Because his teeth overlap at the bottom; Charles needs braces to straighten them out.

Word: Overlay
Meaning: to cover the surface of something with something else
Example: The girl’s memories started to overlay one another; making it hard for her to know what happened when.

Word: Overlook
Meaning: to supervise and direct
Example: When the young man got hired at the restaurant; the manager would overlook the new employee’s work to make sure he was doing his job correctly.

Word: Overpower
Meaning: to take over or overwhelm something
Example: The scent of garlic began to overpower the kitchen and could be smelled all the way outside.

Word: Overprotective
Meaning: to have the desire or tendency to protect someone (especially a child) excessively
Example: The overprotective mother rarely lets her teenage son out of her sight.

Word: Override
Meaning: To use one’s authority to cancel or overrule the action or decision of another
Example: A manager is needed to override the transaction if the clerk makes a mistake.

Word: Overrule
Meaning: to make a decision that opposes or rejects someone else’s idea; opinion; or decision
Example: The Supreme Court decided to overrule the states’ bans and allow same-sex marriage in the U.S.

Word: Oversaturated
Meaning: soaked; holding more of something that can be absorbed
Example: Because it has rained for two weeks straight; the fields are oversaturated with water.

Word: Overseas
Meaning: located in an overseas country
Example: While flying overseas; Lisa got a good view of both continents and the Pacific ocean.

Word: Overseas
Meaning: across a sea to a foreign country; abroad
Example: The latest figures show the numbers of overseas tourists are still falling.

Word: Oversee
Meaning: to supervise; guide; review or direct the actions of a person or group
Example: Gamekeepers oversee a hunting ground to see to the wildlife’s welfare and look for poachers.

Word: Overshadow
Meaning: to cause something to seem less important or noticeable
Example: I knew that I needed to study for my exam; but my growing stomach and hunger pangs seemed to overshadow everything else.

Word: Oversight
Meaning: something that someone does by mistake; without seeing that they are doing it
Example: Rob apologized for the oversight; insisting that it was a mistake that would never happen again.

Word: Overstatement
Meaning: an exaggeration or overemphasis
Example: The president’s latest overstatement is just another example of his tendency to exaggerate.

Word: Overt
Meaning: open and not secret
Example: In some countries; racial prejudice is overt and not disguised in the least.

Word: Overtake
Meaning: to take control of something
Example: Rebels are entering the land and will try to overtake the government by force.

Word: Overtake
Meaning: to pass a more slowly object
Example: As the driver of a car tried to overtake a tractor trailer on a busy highway; he couldn’t complete the pass and moved back behind him.

Word: Overthrow
Meaning: a removal of a figure or establishment from power
Example: In order to overthrow someone in a position of authority; you will need enough power or support to remove them from power.

Word: Overtly
Meaning: publicly; openly
Example: It is important to read through contracts before you sign them because some things are not overtly stated.

Word: Overtone
Meaning: something suggested but not directly stated
Example: The rude email wasn’t directly racist; but it had a bigoted overtone.

Word: Overture
Meaning: a piece of music played at the beginning of an opera or musical play
Example: When he heard the overture begin to play; the actor immediately became nervous.

Word: Overview
Meaning: a general review or summation of something
Example: Because we needed to get the plan down quickly; our leader gave us a quick overview instead of a detailed plan.

Word: Overweening
Meaning: arrogant; conceited
Example: Ever since Jim won the contest; he has been overweening and acting as though he is the smartest kid on the planet.

Word: Overweight
Meaning: weighing more than considered normal or allowed
Example: The overweight patient came to her doctor for advice on how to lose at least fifty pounds.

Word: Overwhelm
Meaning: to overpower in thought or emotion
Example: A major test; a research project; and three assignments due tomorrow would overwhelm all the students with the amount of time and energy it would take to prepare for all of those tasks.

Word: Overwhelming
Meaning: very intense or overpowering
Example: An overwhelming sense of fear overcame the woman as she took a shortcut through a dark alley on her way home.

Word: Overwrought
Meaning: in a state of excessive nervousness; excitement; or anger
Example: The bride was overwrought when the florist delivered the wrong flower order.

Word: Overzealous
Meaning: too enthusiastic; determined
Example: The defense worried that the judge would be influenced by the overzealous prosecutor.

Word: Owe
Meaning: to need to pay or give someone something
Example: Because I don’t owe any money to anyone this week; I can spend my paycheck on what I want.

Word: Owe
Meaning: to be indebted to the amount of
Example: Paula said to Ben; “We only owe $900 on our car and we need to pay it off when we receive our tax refund.”

Word: Ownership
Meaning: having legal possession of or being the owner of something
Example: The title was given to the man after buying his truck so that he could prove ownership if needed.

Word: Oxen
Meaning: typically male bovine trained as draft animals and beasts of burden
Example: A pair of oxen are used to pull the farm cart that we own; since it is far too heavy to be carried with less powerful beasts.

Word: Oxidation
Meaning: the result of a substance coming into contact with oxygen; generating a deficit of electrons
Example: During oxidation; the oxygen caused the paint to peel off the metal rod.

Word: Oxidize
Meaning: to merge with oxygen such as in the process of rusting or burning
Example: If you leave your bike in the rain; it will oxidize and begin to rust.

Word: Oxygen
Meaning: is a nonflammable gas with no smell or color
Example: Mountain climbers often carry oxygen bottles on high altitude climbs to prevent hypoxia; a rapid condition which weakens your body.

Word: Oxymoron
Meaning: an expression that contains words with opposite meanings
Example: Normally; an oxymoron consists of a noun and an adjective which clashes in opposition with that noun.

Word: Oy Vey
Meaning: a Yiddish phrase expressing dismay or exasperation
Example: I'm an hour late for work and I still cannot find my car keys. Oy Vey.

Word: Ozone
Meaning: the type of oxygen located in a high tier of the Earth’s atmosphere
Example: Without the ozone layer; life will cease to exist on Earth.

Word: Pabulum
Meaning: bland intellectual fare
Example: I hate when presidential candidates mouth politically correct pabulum that they don’t even believe in.

Word: Pace
Meaning: speed or rate at which one is moving
Example: Moving at a snail’s pace; the writer didn’t think she would ever finish drafting the article.

Word: Pachyderm
Meaning: a mammal; usually with thick skin; that has hooves or appendages similar in shape to hooves
Example: If a circus has an elephant; it has a pachyderm.

Word: Pacific
Meaning: calm; peaceful
Example: The burglar was able to escape with many valuables because the homeowner's dog was very pacific.

Word: Pacifist
Meaning: one who loves; supports; or favors peace over violence
Example: Since he was a pacifist; he was hoping not to be drafted into the Armed Forces.

Word: Pacify
Meaning: to placate or appease
Example: If my husband thinks he can pacify me with a pearl necklace; then he is in for a big surprise!

Word: Packet
Meaning: a small parcel or package
Example: The patient returned the packet of papers to the doctor’s secretary once he filled them out.

Word: Pact
Meaning: a formal agreement
Example: Not wanting to forget the good times they had; the high school friends made a pact to keep in touch after graduation.

Word: Pad
Meaning: flattened mass of anything soft
Example: Mason put a rubber pad on the floor during his cardio class to reduce the pressure on his knees.

Word: Paddle
Meaning: a small racket
Example: Picking up the paddle and ball; the young child was ready to play her first game of table tennis.

Word: Paean
Meaning: any loud and joyous song; a song of victory or achievement
Example: After losing the game; the team was disappointed not to sing their victory paean.

Word: Pagan
Meaning: an individual who doesn’t follow one of the world’s main religions
Example: My uncle is a pagan who worships money.

Word: Pageant
Meaning: a demonstration of contestants or incidents usually involving a common theme
Example: As the women donned their native country’s costume; they walked across the stage in the Miss Universe Pageant.

Word: Paging
Meaning: calling a person over a loudspeaker; usually in a public place
Example: The store manager began paging for the customer to come to the front several minutes ago.

Word: Paging
Meaning: calling out the name of a person over a loudspeaker
Example: While someone was paging for the lost boy to come to the front of the store; his parents were having a meltdown.

Word: Pagoda
Meaning: a pyramid-shaped religious building with curled up edges on each level that is usually found in Asia
Example: During my visit to Japan; I noticed the pagoda towering over the tourists on the ground.

Word: Pail
Meaning: a round container with a handle used for carrying things
Example: When the barn caught on fire; the only thing pioneers could use to put the fire out was a pail of water.

Word: Pain
Meaning: anguish and discomfort
Example: When the child accidentally placed her hand on the hot stove; the pain could be heard in her screams and cries.

Word: Painful
Meaning: experiencing or providing agony or discomfort
Example: The painful bee sting resulted in my arm reddening and swelling to twice its original size.

Word: Painless
Meaning: without pain or trouble
Example: Thanks to the anesthesia; the surgery was painless for Shirley.

Word: Painstaking
Meaning: performed with a great deal of attention
Example: Even though the rebuilding of the old farmhouse was going to be a painstaking job; I could not wait to begin work on my new home.

Word: Paint
Meaning: 
Example: The artist used different colored paint to make a colorful landscape of the sunset.

Word: Pair
Meaning: a couple of things that work jointly
Example: After putting on my clothes; I grabbed my pair of shoes and placed them on my feet before heading out the door.

Word: Palace
Meaning: an estate with a large exquisite house or structure
Example: Since the Tort Palace had a long history during the 1800s; it became a historical landmark that was visited by many tourists.

Word: Paladin
Meaning: a very brave knight that fought using a horse and a sword
Example: While fighting bravely for his country; Charlemagne’s paladin refused to bow down to any other knight.

Word: Palatable
Meaning: satisfactory; suitable
Example: Although the food is not the tastiest I have ever eaten; it is palatable and will fill my tummy.

Word: Palate
Meaning: person’s sense of taste or appetite
Example: Because she has a picky palate; the toddler refuses to eat anything other than chicken nuggets.

Word: Palatial
Meaning: on a large scale with elaborate furnishings
Example: The palatial diamond ring was so heavy it made Gina’s finger hurt.

Word: Palaver
Meaning: unnecessary talk that wastes time
Example: Although we were supposed to have a lecture; the teacher spent the entire period with palaver about his vacation.

Word: Pale
Meaning: light in color
Example: When I looked at my friend with the pale face and wide eyes; I realized she had also heard someone break into our house.

Word: Paleolithic
Meaning: a period of time during the Stone Age where many stone and bone artifacts have been discovered
Example: As the historian walked into the old cave; he took notice of the Paleolithic cave paintings depicting people and stones.

Word: Paleontology
Meaning: the area of science which focuses on the past through the review of plant and animal fossils
Example: Students with an interest in fossils should consider paleontology as a college major.

Word: Palette
Meaning: an artist’s flat paint panel which is used for mixing and holding paint
Example: Bob Ross usually used a dull knife to scrape the paint from his palette and smear it onto his canvas.

Word: Palimpsest
Meaning: a thing which displays evidence of the alteration it has experienced
Example: While the tradition has changed over time; it is still a palimpsest of our family’s history.

Word: Palindrome
Meaning: a term or group of words that contain the same letters no matter which way the word is read
Example: Since I knew my word during the Spelling Bee was a palindrome; I could easily spell it since I knew how to spell the first five letters of the word.

Word: Palisade
Meaning: posts usually made out of wood that form a fenced-in area
Example: As news of the Union troops marching closer to their town; the citizens built a palisade around their houses in order to defend themselves if troops attacked.

Word:  Pall 
Meaning: a thing or person that makes something depressing or dismal
Example: The car accident that killed five students cast a pall over the graduation ceremony.

Word: Palladium
Meaning: a platinum type metal that is a light silvery color and is flexible enough to be shaped
Example: Due to its mobility; the electrical engineer used palladium to form it into the necessary shape so that it could be used as part in the electronic device.

Word: Pallet
Meaning: a movable stand used for packing and transporting goods
Example: When the 18-wheeler truck stopped by the company’s loading dock; each shipping pallet was loaded onto the truck.

Word: Palliate
Meaning: to get rid of or alleviate
Example: After surgery; Greg received large does of medications to palliate his suffering.

Word: Palliative
Meaning: soothing remedy to relieve pain such as medicine
Example: My rash needs some palliative lotion if it is going to stop hurting and heal.

Word: Pallid
Meaning: pale skin or lacking in vitality or interest
Example: Although she is a redhead with very fair skin; Maureen has tried all sorts of ways to give her pallid complexion just a touch of color.

Word: Pallor
Meaning: an unhealthy pale appearance
Example: After working on the project for four months; Carl was anxious to take a cruise in the sun and work on getting rid of his office pallor.

Word: Palm 
Meaning: the inner part of the hand between the wrist and fingers
Example: David’s palm was dry and cracked from working in the garden with his bare hands.

Word: Palpable
Meaning: capable of being touched; felt; handled; or perceived
Example:  When she is angry at dinner; my mother kills the flavor of the meal with her palpable silence.

Word: Palpitate
Meaning: to thump or throb intensely
Example: When the music at the concert started to palpitate; it caused my head to hurt.

Word: Paltry
Meaning: small or meager
Example: My teenage son often complains about what he considers to be a paltry allowance.

Word: Pampas
Meaning: treeless plains in South America
Example: The pampas is extremely hot because the treeless terrain is under the equator.

Word: Pamper
Meaning: to indulge with affection and attention
Example: The gentleman would pamper his wife with a shoulder massage on a consistent basis.

Word: Pamphlet
Meaning: a small booklet or leaflet of printed informational matter
Example: Flipping through her pamphlet; Anna now felt she had a better understanding of the importance of recycling.

Word: Pan
Meaning: a metal or iron pan used for cooking
Example: Cover and slow cook the brisket in the large roasting pan for six hours at 275 degrees.

Word: Panacea
Meaning: something that will make everything about a situation better
Example: Unfortunately there is no panacea that will make cancer instantly vanish from your body.

Word: Panache
Meaning: a showy self-assured manner or style
Example: Because the band played with such panache; everyone in the audience had a great time.

Word: Pancreas
Meaning: an organ that creates insulin and aids in digestion
Example: As the anatomy instructor pointed out the pancreas from the lower half of the body’s diagram; the students noticed its distinctive shape.

Word: Pandemic
Meaning: an illness or disease happening over a broad area
Example: I have no interest in watching a television show about a pathological pandemic that turns half the world’s population into zombies.

Word: Pandemonium
Meaning: chaos and utter craziness
Example: Even though the teacher had instructed the children to be on their best behavior; pandemonium broke loose the minute Santa Claus walked through the door.

Word: Pander 
Meaning: to spoil a person by giving him his desires; usually something immoral or illegal
Example: The woman on the corner did not realize she was attempting to pander her sexual services to an undercover cop.

Word: Pandiculation
Meaning: yawning and stretching
Example: Before my feet hit the floor; my typical morning pandiculation process of yawning began.

Word: Pane
Meaning: a piece of glass used in windows
Example: When the baseball crashed through the pane; the father explained to his son how important it is to hit the ball away from the house.

Word: Panegyric
Meaning: a speech or written composition used to pay tribute to a person; place; or thing
Example: After the princess died a popular singer wrote a panegyric to honor her life.

Word: Panel
Meaning: a thin section of a plank of wood
Example: After piecing the panel together with the large headboard; the designer painted it and set it behind the bed.

Word: Pang
Meaning: an abrupt yet intense spasm of distress or pain
Example: When the bullet entered Rick’s stomach; it sent a pang of agony through his body.

Word: Pangaea
Meaning: the name of the ancient super-continent that incorporated all of the earth
Example: Pangaea existed when all of the Earth’s continents were one big continent.

Word: Panic
Meaning: a quick worry or dread that someone can’t stop
Example: Everyone could hear the panic in the child’s voice and see the strained look in his face as the boy searched for his mother.

Word: Panicky
Meaning: having the qualities of a quick worry or dread that someone can’t stop
Example: After unearthing a true scandalous story of her opponent; the panicky candidate began mumbling and fumbling around on stage.

Word: Panoply
Meaning: an impressive collection or exhibition
Example: The designer’s exciting panoply of dresses won over the fashion critics.

Word: Panoptic
Meaning: showing or seeing the whole at one view
Example: The panoptic view from the hot air balloon allowed us to see all of the city.

Word: Panorama
Meaning: a picture of a long scene or place
Example: Hot air balloon tours allow risk-takers to see a panorama of the city below while being thousands of feet up in the air.

Word: Panoramic
Meaning: having the qualities of a long scene or place in a picture
Example: As my friend showed me his panoramic photo of the mountain; I could point out the entire mountain system and all of the valleys.

Word: Pansophy
Meaning: knowing all information
Example: Studying theology allowed the students to ascertain that God’s pansophy enabled believers to put their faith in him.

Word: Pantheism
Meaning: belief that God is the universe and the universe is God
Example: Individuals who believe in pantheism maintain that God and the universe are the same being.

Word: Pantheon
Meaning: a temple dedicated to all the gods
Example: As part of their course; the mythology students visited the pantheon in the ancient city.

Word: Pantomime
Meaning: the act of using gestures or movements instead of words to convey a message
Example: After being given a word related to birds; the performer acted out a pantomime in which he ran around the room flapping his arms.

Word: Papacy
Meaning: the period of time in which a pope is in office
Example: St. Peter’s 35 year papacy was the longest of any pope in history.

Word: Paper
Meaning: a thin flimsy item that is made from wood and mainly used for people to write on
Example: After the little girl cut out the dolls and clothes from the paper; she folded the flaps of the paper dress onto the doll.

Word: Paperweight
Meaning: a small; heavy object that is used to keep loose papers in place
Example: Because he had no paperweight to hold down his files; the wind blew the attorney’s papers all around.

Word: Papist
Meaning: a derogatory term that refers to a Roman Catholic who accepts the Pope as an authority of God
Example: Pledging his allegiance to the Pope and the Catholic Church; the papist refused to acknowledge the Church of England.

Word: Papyrus
Meaning: a material similar to paper made from the papyrus plant
Example: The ancient document was written on delicate papyrus; and needed to be handled carefully.

Word: Parable
Meaning: a short story that delivers a message
Example: The play is a parable that teaches the students a lesson about the importance of being kind.

Word: Parabola
Meaning: the kind of curve or arc that is created when an item is tossed upwards and lands in a different location
Example: The curve of a parabola is created by the path an object takes when it ascends and then comes down in a different place.

Word: Parachute
Meaning: a device made of fabric canopy that is used to slow the descent of a person or object falling through the air
Example: The automatic parachute opener functioned properly; allowing the man to safely descend to the ground.

Word: Parade
Meaning: organized procession consisting of displays; performances; exhibits; etc. displayed by moving down a street past a crowd
Example: Henry took his kids downtown to the Christmas parade to see Santa go by on a float.

Word: Paradigm
Meaning: a typical example or model of something
Example: Sister Mary Catherine is considered a paradigm of virtue by everyone in the church.

Word: Paradigmatic
Meaning: associated with a standard model or example
Example: If you want to see a paradigmatic icon of music; you should attend Sir Elton's concert.

Word: Paradise
Meaning: a very pleasant place
Example: The dog was in his paradise whenever his owner took him to the dog park.

Word: Paradisiacal
Meaning: pertaining to wonderland or a wonderful place; nirvana
Example: I dreamed that I sailed to a paradisiacal island where I was fed gourmet food and played all the time.

Word: Paradox
Meaning: a person; thing; or situation that is strange because they have features or qualities that do not normally exist together
Example: In a strange paradox; the medicine made Heather sick before it made her better.

Word: Paradoxically
Meaning: in a manner that is contradictory
Example: Paradoxically; the economy is improving although many families complain about the poverty in which they live.

Word: Paragon
Meaning: a model of excellence or perfection
Example: As a paragon of purity; a nun would never dress inappropriately.

Word: Paragraph
Meaning: sentences written one after the other about one topic
Example: The English teacher assigned her 2nd grade students to write a paragraph about their summer vacation.

Word: Parallax
Meaning: the impression that the direction or location of an object appears to vary when observed from diverse viewpoints
Example: Because of the concept of parallax; locations look different when viewed at unique angles.

Word: Parallel
Meaning: stretching on in the same way or path
Example: Ms. Peterson realized that she was one street off from the doctor’s office; so she knew she could cut through to the next parallel street in order to reach her destination.

Word: Parallelogram
Meaning: a flat shape with two pairs of parallel sides
Example: The 10 by 20 rectangular cotton field formed a parallelogram.

Word: Paralysis
Meaning: the lack of mobility in a limb or part of the body
Example: Money from a grant issued wheelchairs to victims of the disaster who suffered from paralysis.

Word: Paralyze
Meaning: to cause a person or part of the body to lose the ability to feel and move
Example: A broken vertebra in her neck threatened to sever her spinal cord and paralyze her from moving.

Word: Paramedic
Meaning: a person trained to respond to medical emergencies
Example: Averaging around six minutes to respond to an emergency; the paramedic felt that his crew was efficient.

Word: Parameter 
Meaning: a requirement that establishes the range of something
Example: If you meet the low-income parameter; you are eligible for financial aid.

Word: Paramount
Meaning: of the greatest concern
Example: It is paramount that my grandfather takes his medicine if he wants to feel better.

Word: Paramour 
Meaning: a forbidden lover
Example: To avoid being discovered; Jason often met his paramour at a hotel on the outside of town.

Word: Paranoia
Meaning: an illogical belief that others are against you
Example: Jake kept his money under his mattress because of his paranoia about crooked bankers.

Word: Paranormal
Meaning: supernatural events that cannot be explained by science
Example: His love for ghosts led the new author to writing a mystery novel with a paranormal twist.

Word: Parapet
Meaning: a wall located near the ground that protects the border of a roof; bridge; or other raised area
Example: The parapet on the roof prevented the attacking soldiers from hitting the men who hid behind it.

Word: Paraphernalia
Meaning: an assortment of items that are required for a specific task or activity
Example: Inside of the supremacist’s camp; authorities stumbled upon a great deal of anti-government paraphernalia.

Word: Paraphrase
Meaning: to take someone else’s words or writing and restate it
Example: When you paraphrase the work; make sure that you clarify any confusing parts.

Word: Paraplegic
Meaning: someone who is unable to move their legs and lower body
Example: Due to the man’s broken back; the surgeon was certain the man would be a paraplegic for life since he couldn’t move his legs.

Word: Parasite
Meaning: a living organism which exists by taking from another living creature; usually while living inside or on the host
Example: The flea is a parasite that survives by extracting nourishment from other organisms.

Word: Parasitical
Meaning: of; pertaining to; or having the characteristics of a parasite; leechlike or freeloading
Example: Ticks feed off of human blood; making them parasitical and dangerous.

Word: Parasitism
Meaning: an unhealthy relationship in which a parasite lives off another organism; usually causing damage in the process
Example: Parasitism is a one-sided biological relationship in which an organism weakens a host while obtaining resources from it.

Word: Parasol
Meaning: a lightweight umbrella used to block the sun
Example: Hiding from the Kentucky Derby heat; the toffee-nosed lady shaded herself with a parasol.

Word: Parcel
Meaning: an item wrapped or placed in a container so it can be transported
Example: I am taking the parcel to the post office to be mailed.

Word: Parch
Meaning: to dry up due to heat
Example: With the sun shining so brightly; it was not difficult to parch the wet clothing.

Word: Parched
Meaning: having a strong need for moisture
Example: After being stuck in the desert for two days; I was parched and in need of water.

Word: Parchment
Meaning: stiff; translucent paper that is used for baking or writing
Example: Thin parchment paper lined the bottom of the greased baking pan.

Word: Pardon
Meaning: to overlook or accept someone’s wrongdoing or an action
Example: “Please pardon our interruption; but the boys’ soccer team needs to report to the gym immediately;” the principal said over the intercom.

Word: Pare
Meaning: clip; tidy up or peel something to make it look better
Example: In order to make my small apartment more comfortable; I had to pare down my possessions to only a few small pieces of furniture.

Word: Parenthood
Meaning: the status of being a mother or father
Example: After the 20-year old gave birth to her daughter; she realized that her party life was over since she entered parenthood.

Word: Pariah
Meaning: one who is or should be excluded
Example: When the child molester was released from prison; he was treated like a pariah in his community.

Word: Parish
Meaning: the area under the guidance of a minister or priest
Example: After a while; the priest left his congregation in the city to care for the souls in a small rural parish.

Word: Parishioner
Meaning: an individual who is a member of a certain church congregation
Example: As a parishioner of the First Baptist Church; my grandmother hasn’t missed a Sunday service in twenty years.

Word: Parity 
Meaning: the same in nature; value; or class
Example: As far as parity in currency; the pound is worth more than the dollar.

Word: Park
Meaning: a plot of land in a natural surrounding for people to appreciate
Example: Pokémon Go is a great game that encourages people to exercise by walking around in a park or down a street.

Word: Parlance
Meaning: a way of speaking that is typical of a certain group or culture
Example: When I heard the computer programmers talking about coding; I could not understand a word of their parlance.

Word: Parlay
Meaning: to place a wager on an upcoming event
Example: During March Madness; many gamblers parlay their earnings on the basketball teams that they think will win the tournament.

Word: Parley
Meaning:  conversation between enemies or rivals
Example: The end result of the parley between the two world leaders was a productive trade agreement.

Word: Parliament 
Meaning: individuals who are elected for a certain period of time in order to make laws and decisions about national concerns
Example: Today; the new members of parliament will be sworn in and begin their terms as lawmakers.

Word: Parliamentary
Meaning: pertaining to a government or lawmaking group
Example: Once the candidate won the parliamentary election in Great Britain; he knew he would first change the law about child abuse victims.

Word: Parlor
Meaning: a nice room in the house that is reserved for socializing with friends
Example: As the pastor and his wife were escorted into our parlor to discuss our membership in the church; I quickly got my husband to join us.

Word: Parlous
Meaning: unsafe; risky
Example: Because of the storm; it was parlous for the children to leave school.

Word: Parochial
Meaning: having a restricted outlook
Example: John’s view of life is parochial and does not include anything outside of his own happiness.

Word: Parody
Meaning: a humorous impression of a creative work
Example: When I heard the parody of the love song; I could not stop laughing.

Word: Parole
Meaning: conditional release of a person convicted of a crime
Example: The convicted killer had no chance of parole; but was spared from the death penalty.

Word: Paroxysm
Meaning: an unexpected outburst of emotion
Example: Since Jason is normally quiet; he shocked everyone when he made a loud paroxysm in response to being fired.

Word: Parricide
Meaning: the murder of a parental figure or close relative
Example: Because the number of teens killing their parents has recently increased; researchers have started to delve further into the issue of parricide.

Word: Parry
Meaning: a shielding or defensive maneuver used for protection
Example: She put on her sunglasses to parry his probing eyes.

Word: Parse
Meaning: deconstruct a sentence or word and explain its parts
Example: In order to diagram sentences; the students were required to parse the sentence into the correct parts of speech.

Word: Parsimonious
Meaning: the quality of being careful with money or resources
Example: To save money; the parsimonious old man always bought used clothes.

Word: Parson
Meaning: a Protestant clergyman that is over a parish church
Example: The parson felt it was his responsibility to protect and defend the rights of the church.

Word: Parsonage
Meaning: a house provided by the church for a clergyman
Example: The priest lived in a spacious parsonage not far from his church.

Word: Part ways
Meaning: to go in different directions or end a relationship to pursue different things
Example: The two travelers hiked the first part of the journey together but decided to part ways at the first intersection.

Word: Part
Meaning: a piece or section of something
Example: Most of the cake was eaten at dinner; but a part of it was wrapped and saved for tomorrow.

Word: Partake
Meaning: to take part in an activity; to participate
Example: I will not partake of your party because it attracts a lot of criminals.

Word: Partaker
Meaning: a person who joins in or takes part in an activity
Example: Each partaker of the Sunday meal is expected to bring a dish to share with others at the dinner.

Word: Partial
Meaning: part of the whole; incomplete
Example: Our boss rejected the proposed plan because he claimed that it was only a partial solution to the problem.

Word: Partiality
Meaning: prejudice is shown towards something
Example: Ms. Frost showed her partiality towards her smart students by refusing to call on anyone in her class who didn’t have an A.

Word: Partially
Meaning: somewhat or relatively done
Example: Once both boys were caught accidentally smashing the window with a rock; Bill was only partially responsible for the damage because the other boy should pay too.

Word: Participant
Meaning: one who takes part in an activity
Example: Each participant will be given a name tag to show that they paid to come to the conference.

Word: Participate
Meaning: to join in; to take part; to involve oneself
Example: “Will you participate in the three-legged race or the sack race?” Shirley asked her best friend.

Word: Participate
Meaning: to join in or take part in something
Example: Several people have signed up to participate in the local kickball game.

Word: Participation
Meaning: contributing and being involved in something
Example: As the new treasurer in the student council; Tiffany’s participation in student government would look good on her college applications.

Word: Participatory
Meaning: sharing or taking part in something
Example: After requiring the teachers to meet together to discuss their lesson plans; the participatory meeting allowed everyone to become involved in the curriculum.

Word: Participle
Meaning: a word formed from a verb that functions as an adjective
Example: In the sentence “The man was happy to see the rising sun;” rising serves as a participle.

Word: Particle
Meaning: a small git or speck
Example: A gust of wind blew a small but irritating particle of dust into my eye.

Word: Particular
Meaning: certain or distinct
Example: The children paid particular attention when the teacher began explaining what would be on the next big exam.

Word: Particularly
Meaning: to a higher degree than normal or average
Example: The veterinarian likes all animals; but she is particularly fond of rabbits.

Word: Particulate
Meaning: a very small piece or particle
Example: Although the elements are small; particulate pollution can cause a great deal of damage to the environment.

Word: Partisan
Meaning: prejudiced in favor of a particular cause
Example: Because of your partisan views; you are unwilling to look at other options.

Word: Partition
Meaning: a divider that breaks up an area
Example: We will use a partition to divide our living area into a living space and a workspace.

Word: Partly
Meaning: somewhat or moderately
Example: With some sun shining through the clouds; the weatherman stated; “it is partly cloudy today.”

Word: Partner
Meaning: a couple or duo who worked together during an endeavor
Example: Tiffany wanted an experienced business partner to help her begin her beauty shop business because they could make it a success.

Word: Partnership
Meaning: the act of being together with one other person; entity or thing
Example: In order to play the game; the students were in a partnership competing against the other teams for the prize.

Word: Parturient
Meaning: in labor; in the process of giving birth
Example: The parturient mother hoped that her labor would end quickly and without much discomfort.

Word: Parturition
Meaning: childbirth; the process of giving birth
Example: Breastfeeding can continue several years after parturition is complete and the baby is born.

Word: Party
Meaning: a group of people who come together for a celebration
Example: When Karen walked into the dark room; she realized it was her surprise birthday party as soon as the lights came on.

Word: Parvenu
Meaning: an individual who moves from a lower economic and social class to a higher one while remaining an outsider
Example: To the town's oldest and wealthiest families; the lottery winner was a parvenu who would never be welcome in their social circle.

Word: Pasquinade
Meaning: a composition (cartoon; flyer or skit) that imitates; mocks or misrepresents somebody's style; typically in a humorous way
Example: The politician was unamused at the latest pasquinade published in the newspaper.

Word: Pass Away
Meaning: to die; generally of natural causes
Example: My son asked why his grandfather had to pass away; but all I could tell him was that it had been the ninety year old man’s time to go.

Word: Pass
Meaning: to go or move forward or through
Example: We waited a long time at the railroad tracks for a train to pass through.

Word: Passage
Meaning: a route for something to go through
Example: Christopher Columbus believed he found a passage to India but instead he found a new land.

Word: Passenger
Meaning: a person who is riding in a vehicle
Example: Only one passenger in the train was killed; but several others were injured when the train derailed.

Word: Passerby
Meaning: a person who happens to be walking by something
Example: Thankfully; a passerby spotted the raging fire and called 911.

Word: Passerby
Meaning: one who passes by someone or something by chance
Example: The police officer stated that a passerby noticed a damaged empty vehicle in a ditch and reported it.

Word: Passion
Meaning: an intense liking and desire for something
Example: Even though most of the man’s friends called him cheap; he just had a strong passion to save as much money as he could.

Word: Passionate
Meaning: strong feelings toward something
Example: After suffering from two bouts of cancer; the family became passionate about donating every year to their local cancer organization.

Word: Passionately
Meaning: to be done with great feeling and reaction
Example: After acquiring her great singing gig; Annette sang passionately to the large audience in the Grand Theater.

Word: Passive
Meaning: undertaking no action
Example: The passive man never placed a hand on his abusive wife.

Word: Passivity
Meaning: the state of being passive; inactive; or lazy; a lack of initiative
Example: Her passivity in making a decision led to her termination from work.

Word: Passover
Meaning: a spring celebration in the Jewish faith due to their people gaining their freedom
Example: Typically taking place in March or April; Jewish people commemorate the Passover holiday with a feast.

Word: Past
Meaning: period of time that has already happened
Example: I notified the grocery store manager about the milk I needed to purchase was past the expiration date.

Word: Paste
Meaning: a substance that is thick but moist and is usually made by mixing dry ingredients with a liquid
Example: Mixing the flour with a bit of water; the chef created a thick paste to serve as the base of her recipe.

Word: Pasteurization
Meaning: a purification process which uses heat to kill bacteria and germs
Example: Milk is required to go through a pasteurization procedure so that it is fit to drink without getting sick.

Word: Pastiche
Meaning:  a mix of unique items
Example: The mix of country; pop; and soul music made the album a fascinating pastiche of sounds.

Word: Pastime
Meaning: a hobby done during someone’s free time
Example: After Mr. Frank retired from his office job; his pastime included golfing; reading and traveling.

Word: Pastoral
Meaning: pertaining to the country or to country folk
Example: The Smiths decided it would be better to raise their family in a pastoral area outside of the city.

Word: Pasture
Meaning: a grassy meadow of land used to grow grass or for livestock
Example: Farmer Fred rarely needed to mow his pasture due to his cows always grazing the grass and keeping it short.

Word: Pat
Meaning: to touch or tap something softly
Example: “Pat yourself on the back for a job well done on the difficult test;” the teacher said to her class.

Word: Patch
Meaning: to conceal and protect a little piece of cloth or other material over a gap
Example: Mothers usually have to patch their little boys’ pants because they frequently play so rough outside with their friends.

Word: Pate
Meaning: the uppermost part of a human being’s head
Example: After falling from the third floor; the victim lay dead on the sidewalk since he landed on his pate damaging his brain.

Word: Patent
Meaning: an official government document that allows the creator of a product to only create and sell this product for a period of time
Example: After the consultation with a lawyer regarding my invention of a self-cleaning placemat; the lawyer explained that the patent would take years to acquire for my product.

Word: Patented
Meaning: pertaining to a product; service or invention that has been issued a government document limiting others from reproducing it
Example: Their patented cordless vacuum cleaner made millions of dollar for the Sands family since their company made the only cordless type.

Word: Patently
Meaning: clearly so; without a doubt
Example: Although the information was patently false; the naïve woman believed the lies anyway.

Word: Paternal
Meaning: of or pertaining to one's father
Example: Abigail’s paternal grandfather was born in Johnstown; Pennsylvania.

Word: Paternalism
Meaning: a method of governance by which an authority advises individuals while not allowing them to make decisions
Example: The principal’s paternalism is necessary because it limits the actions of rebellious students.

Word: Paternity
Meaning: the condition of being a specific child’s father
Example: A paternity test will determine if Bill or his best friend is the child’s dad.

Word: Path
Meaning: a track or route
Example: Looking left; the victim ran down a path that led out of the park with the attackers close behind her.

Word: Pathetic 
Meaning: rousing compassion
Example: Jason looked like a pathetic dog as he tried to set up his tent in the drenching rain.

Word: Pathogen
Meaning: a tiny organism that brings about a disease
Example: The pathogen triggered an illness that made half the student body sick.

Word: Pathological
Meaning: in an unusual or unhealthy manner
Example: My sister is a pathological liar who never tells the truth about anything.

Word: Pathos
Meaning: a feeling of sympathy or pity
Example: The pathos of the movie caused me to leave the theater with tears in my eyes.

Word: Pathway
Meaning: a trail or passageway
Example: Nurse Johnson informed the cancer patient that the only pathway to recovery was through ten treatments of chemotherapy.

Word: Patience
Meaning: tolerating and enduring frustrating; time-consuming and problems with ease and composure
Example: Her patience was running thin as she was waiting four times longer than anybody else in the restaurant to be seated.

Word: Patient
Meaning: tolerating problems or irritation in an easygoing way
Example: When the truck seemed to be in an emergency; the patient driver of the car remained still for the truck to pass.

Word: Patiently
Meaning: in a tolerant and good natured way
Example: After spending three hours in the doctor’s waiting room; the woman still waited patiently for her appointment.

Word: Patina
Meaning: a layer of coating
Example: A shiny patina covers the statue; amplifying its historical value.

Word: Patio
Meaning: a paved outside space that is usually attached to the house
Example: During the garden party; the club members met on the patio to sip their lemonade and discuss the items on the meeting’s agenda.

Word: Patois
Meaning: the accent and way that the people of a certain area speak that is different than the rest of the place
Example: As the patois of the woman’s words were heard; many people couldn’t quite understand what she was saying.

Word: Patriarch
Meaning: the male who sits at the head of the tribe or family
Example: In my house; my father is the patriarch of the family.

Word: Patriarchal
Meaning: related to a system that is run or ruled by men
Example: Many ancient societies were patriarchal in nature; having predominantly male leaders in both the military and politics.

Word: Patriarchy
Meaning: a system of authority in which males are the power holders
Example: For over a hundred years the country has been ruled through the patriarchy of kings.

Word: Patrician
Meaning: relating to an individual born into a lofty position or an aristocratic family
Example: Marcus was born into a patrician family of great wealth.

Word: Patricide
Meaning: the action taken when an individual ends the life of his or her father
Example: Peter was arrested for patricide after killing his father.

Word: Patrilineal
Meaning: pertaining to the father’s lineage
Example: Since Patty was born to a single mother; she was unaware of her patrilineal health problems.

Word: Patrimony
Meaning: property or goods passed from one’s father or predecessors
Example: The antique is part of the patrimony I inherited from my daddy.

Word: Patriot
Meaning: a person who shows allegiance to his or her country by supporting and defending it
Example: When Great Britain raised the taxes; the patriot decided to fight the British and push for becoming our own nation.

Word: Patriotic
Meaning: pertaining to one’s allegiance and dependability to one’s country
Example: Every patriotic song in the tribute to the fallen soldiers was sung by a choir of professional singers.

Word: Patriotism
Meaning: allegiance and dependability to a country
Example: After 9/11 many U.S. citizens showed patriotism and supported the country by donating time and assistance to each other.

Word: Patrol
Meaning: a duty to guard or observe an area for security reasons
Example: As part of her family’s business; Melissa was required to do a nightly patrol on Fridays to ensure that nobody broke into their jewelry store.

Word: Patron
Meaning: an individual who frequents a specific bar; eatery; or other company
Example: I have a regular patron who eats meatloaf at the same time every day.

Word: Patronage 
Meaning: support or sponsorship
Example: Your patronage of the arts program will allow our students to put on four plays this year.

Word: Patronize
Meaning: to give money or support to someone or something
Example: I patronize my favorite restaurant at least twice a week.

Word: Patronymic
Meaning: pertaining to the father’s or male relative’s name
Example: After many arguments; the expecting couple finally decided to use a patronymic name which made her husband happy.

Word: Pattern
Meaning: a decorative design or motif
Example: The seamstress sewed an interesting pattern on the back of the model’s dress.

Word: Paucity
Meaning: a small amount of something that is not enough
Example: Because of the paucity of our oil supply; we need to seek out other fuel resources.

Word: Pauper 
Meaning: a person who lives in poverty
Example: The pauper had no money and slept under a bridge.

Word: Pause
Meaning: to stop temporarily
Example: Before giving his answer; the student had to pause and think for a moment.

Word: Pause
Meaning: an act someone halts temporarily; usually from a task or speaking; short break
Example: When the prosecutor asked the witness on the stand a complex question; there was a long pause before he answered.

Word: Pave
Meaning: to overlay a surface usually with cement or concrete in order to make it easier to travel on
Example: The interstate was down to one lane of traffic since the county decided to pave the rough road.

Word: Pavement
Meaning: a smooth concrete surface
Example: Since the cement had not dried yet; the pavement was roped off so no one would walk on it.

Word: Pavilion
Meaning: a constructed shelter used for certain reasons
Example: As the torrential downpour interrupted our picnic; the family sought shelter at the pavilion nearby.

Word: Pavonine
Meaning: pertaining to a peacock
Example: As the rain began to come down; the woman’s rainbow-colored umbrella lifted over her head with a pavonine effect.

Word: Paw
Meaning: the appendage of a two or four-legged animal
Example: When I noticed my cat moving her paw up and down on the sofa; I realized that she had torn a hole in the fabric.

Word: Pawn
Meaning: an item that is handed over as collateral for a money loan
Example: Since my engagement ring was so important to me; I decided to pawn it so that I could get it back in a few days.

Word: Pay
Meaning: to give to a person what is due; as for goods and services
Example: Barbara reminded her husband to pay the property tax soon or we will be charged a penalty.

Word: Paycheck
Meaning: a check in payment of wages and salary
Example: Jason received his first paycheck from his summer job and immediately went to the bank and cashed it.

Word: Payment
Meaning: the amount paid or installment of something owed
Example: I only owe one more payment on my car loan; and then my debt will be paid in full.

Word: Payroll
Meaning: distinct amounts of money distributed to a list of workers for conducting their job
Example: At the Bush Family Restaurant; payroll required the owners to issue a check to each member of her wait staff for minimum wage.

Word: Paystub
Meaning: a piece of paper given to a worker that shows the amount of money he or she earned and what was taken for taxes
Example: Without a paystub to show the actual numbers; the employee couldn’t be sure what was being taken out for taxes.

Word: Peace of mind
Meaning: calmness; a feeling of content
Example: While relaxing on the beach; a content Juliette felt an overwhelming sense of peace of mind.

Word: Peace of mind
Meaning: a feeling of being calm and not worried about anything
Example: Yoga and relaxation techniques help the usually stressed woman find peace of mind.

Word: Peace
Meaning: harmony and restfulness
Example: It was peace of mind knowing that all of my bills are paid this month; and I will begin working full-time next month.

Word: Peaceable
Meaning: tending to be free from disagreement and fighting
Example: During the riots; a girl handed over a flower to one of the armed policemen as a peaceable gesture towards the enemy.

Word: Peaceful
Meaning: without disruption; commotion or disorder
Example: Since my mother was babysitting the newborn and my husband was out of town; I actually had a peaceful sleep tonight.

Word: Peacefully
Meaning: quietly and calmly
Example: Martin Luther King Jr. marched peacefully to the Lincoln Memorial and gave his “I Have a Dream” speech.

Word: Peak
Meaning: the highest part of a mountain
Example: The view from the balcony was impressive as the homeowners could see snow covering the peak of Mount Finley.

Word: Peal
Meaning: the piercing sound of something
Example: As I walked down the street on the June day; I could hear the peal of the wedding bells coming from the corner church.

Word: Pear
Meaning: a sweet firm fruit that has a thinner top with a bowl-like base
Example: Chef Henry cut up a pear; banana; apple and peach so that he could make a fruit salad for the guests.

Word: Peasant
Meaning: an individual of the lowest class who is normally uneducated
Example: The peasant signed his name with an “X” because he couldn’t write anything else.

Word: Peat
Meaning: remnants of vegetables that are used to enrich soil
Example: Once the gardener spread peat into the clay dirt; it only took a matter of days before the plants began to grow.

Word: Pebble
Meaning: a flat stone
Example: As a game; I would throw a pebble at an angle to the lake to see how many times it would skip across the lake.

Word: Peccable
Meaning: likely to do wicked or wrong things
Example: Judge Smith already knew the peccable ways of the defendant since he had been before the judge over twenty times.

Word: Peccadillo
Meaning: a small mistake or fault
Example: Because Josh had grown tired of Patty’s criticism of every little peccadillo; he asked her for a divorce.

Word: Peccant
Meaning: having committed a sin
Example: The peccant man shared his sins with his priest.

Word: Peck
Meaning: to jab or poke at something
Example: Since the bird’s eggs were in the same tree with the snake; the mother bird continued to peck at the snake.

Word: Peculate
Meaning: to take money that belongs to others; usually a business or public agency
Example: Because Adam needed money to pay his bills; it was hard for him to fight the temptation to peculate funds from the bank.

Word: Peculiar
Meaning: odd; unusual
Example: My uncle is a peculiar man who wears the same outfit several days a week.

Word: Peculiarity
Meaning: having an odd or strange way or action
Example: Wearing a wide-brimmed red hat and a bright flowery outfit; the peculiarity of the woman caught everyone’s attention.

Word: Pecuniary
Meaning: dealing with finances
Example: Because of the young woman’s pecuniary needs; she is determined to marry a wealthy man.

Word: Pedagogue 
Meaning: an individual who teaches young people
Example: Pedagogue is another word for a teacher or educator.

Word: Pedagogy
Meaning: activities of educating; teaching or instructing
Example: The school boasts the most progressive pedagogy and a 100% graduation rate.

Word: Pedal
Meaning: to move a bicycle by operating the controls
Example: In Germany; many people pedal to work and school because the bicycle is the common way of transportation.

Word: Pedant
Meaning: a scholar or learned person
Example: After answering every question the teacher asked; the pedant drew attention to himself in front of the other students.

Word: Pedantic
Meaning: giving too much importance to details and formal rules
Example: Sometimes; Jason is so pedantic in writing the perfect paper that he forgets to properly manage his time.

Word: Peddle
Meaning: to sell products by traveling to other places
Example: In order to peddle his wares; the young man went door to door describing each product as best as he could.

Word: Peddler
Meaning: an individual who moves from location to location selling things
Example: As a teenager; I worked as a peddler selling magazines door-to-door.

Word: Pedestal
Meaning: a standing from which an individual is greatly admired
Example: Even though you put the rapper on a pedestal for making the occasional charitable donation; the man is really just a thug.

Word: Pedestrian
Meaning: uninteresting or boring
Example: A large number of people fell asleep during the pedestrian play.

Word: Pedigree
Meaning: a record of ancestry that relates to living creatures
Example: The dog’s pedigree identifies his parents as two purebreds.

Word: Pedometer
Meaning: a device used to measure steps taken
Example: The track coach used the pedometer to measure how many strides we took in the race.

Word: Peek-a-boo
Meaning: something that just reveals glimpses of something while hiding the rest
Example: The peek-a-boo windows only offered a small glimpse of the gorgeous mountains outside.

Word: Peek
Meaning: to take a quick glance
Example: Sara took a peek inside the cookie jar to see if there were any cookies left.

Word: Peep
Meaning: to look
Example: Take a peep inside the treasure chest to see what prizes you could earn for good behavior.

Word: Peer pressure
Meaning: influence from others to do a certain thing (usually something negative)
Example: Reggie gave into peer pressure and began to bully others on the playground because that’s what others were doing.

Word: Peer
Meaning: is an equal person of the same age
Example: Have a peer that sits close to you in class check your essay for mistakes before you turn it in.

Word: Peerless
Meaning: one and only; superior than any other
Example: The peerless boxer never loses a fight.

Word: Peeve
Meaning: an annoyance or irritant
Example: Making a tapping sound on the desk was the peeve that annoyed our teacher the most.

Word: Peevish 
Meaning: always whining or complaining
Example: The clingy toddler became peevish every time his mother walked out of the room.

Word: Pejorative
Meaning: expressing disapproval or belittling the importance of something
Example: While the detective was supposed to be neutral; he described the suspect in a pejorative manner.

Word: Pelf
Meaning: money
Example: The penny-pincher refused to part with any of his pelf; choosing to only spend on things that were absolutely necessary.

Word: Pell-mell
Meaning: a confused or disorderly manner
Example: The crowd of people was running about in an absolute pell-mell that was difficult for the riot police to keep under control.

Word: Pellucid
Meaning: very well-defined in meaning and style
Example: The contract was pellucid and left no confusion about each party’s responsibilities.

Word: Pelt
Meaning: to beat or hit repeatedly
Example: When I looked up at the tree; a squirrel took an acorn and acted like it would pelt me with it.

Word: Penal
Meaning: penal refers to a disciplinary punishment
Example: Using that drug outdoors is a penal offense; but using it indoors is permissible.

Word: Penalty
Meaning: a penalty is punishment for violating a rule or law
Example: The player caused the team to receive a five-yard penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct.

Word: Penance
Meaning: self-inflicted punishment for a misdeed
Example: The priest told me to say twenty Hail Marys as a penance for my sins.

Word: Penchant
Meaning: a strong liking
Example: At an early age; my annoying brother seemed to have a penchant for getting into trouble.

Word: Pendant
Meaning: a pendant a piece of jewelry worn around the neck
Example: The teenager had a rose gold pendant around her neck with a chain that hung low.

Word: Pending
Meaning: pending means awaiting approval or decision
Example: The payment I made on the car note is pending; but it hasn’t gone through yet.

Word: Pendulous
Meaning: hanging down
Example: Due to the pendulous flaps on the oversized tablecloth; the cat would claw at it.

Word: Pendulum
Meaning: something hanging and swinging freely back and forth under the influence of gravity
Example: When the pendulum clock strikes twelve; it produces a heavy clanging.

Word: Penetralia
Meaning: penetralia is a centermost hidden chamber or room
Example: The penetralia of the mysterious pyramid was a hidden chamber completely made of gold.

Word: Penetrate
Meaning: to blend into a group or organization or to gain entry
Example: A bullet can easily penetrate your skin.

Word: Penetrated
Meaning: penetrated means to go through
Example: The doctor’s scalpel penetrated the patient’s skin as he began the autopsy.

Word: Peninsula
Meaning: a peninsula is a piece of land surrounded by water
Example: We took a trip to the peninsula which was surrounded by water on all three sides.

Word: Penitent
Meaning: feeling grief for a previous offense or sin
Example: The penitent husband spends days at his wife’s grave because he regrets not spending more time with her.

Word: Penitentiary
Meaning: an area where individuals who have committed major crimes are imprisoned
Example: My brother is a guard inside of a penitentiary that houses traitors; military spies; and the like.

Word: Penmanship
Meaning: penmanship is handwriting
Example: Calligraphy refers to a distinct sophisticated style of penmanship.

Word: Penniless
Meaning: penniless means without money and extremely poor
Example: We saw a penniless homeless man holding a sign that said; “Will work for food”.

Word: Pensee
Meaning: a pensee is a thought; or thoughts; translated into a literary format such as prose or poems
Example: No one was surprised that the author wrote an entire book with nothing but one single idea or pensee inside.

Word: Pension
Meaning: a payment made during a person’s retirement
Example: I will receive far less pay in my retirement pension plan; but poor health won’t allow me to keep working.

Word: Pensioner
Meaning: a person who receives a pension
Example: Alice became a pensioner upon her retirement; and she is waiting to receive her income.

Word: Pensive
Meaning: expressing or revealing sad thoughtfulness
Example: Unrequited love caused her to be in a very pensive mood.

Word: Pentacle
Meaning: a symbol of a circle with a star inside of it
Example: With its five pointed shape; Tara took the pentacle and placed a chain through the round outer shape to make it a necklace.

Word: Pentagon
Meaning: a figure with five straight sides and angles
Example: At first I didn’t recognize the shape; but then I remembered it was a pentagon because it had five sides.

Word: Pentecost
Meaning: the celebration of the day the church began
Example: The Pentecost is the religious festival celebrated on the seventh Sunday after Easter.

Word: Penultimate
Meaning: right before the final one
Example: The author should have ended the series with the penultimate novel instead of closing out the hero’s tale with this poorly written story.

Word: Penumbra
Meaning: something that conceals; encloses; or cloaks something else
Example: A penumbra of snow covered the city during the blizzard.

Word: Penurious
Meaning: desperately in need; not having enough
Example: The penurious little boy could not afford to buy school lunch.

Word: Penury
Meaning: extreme poverty
Example: My uncle wasted his fortune and died in penury.

Word:  Peon 
Meaning: an individual with no authority who earns a small salary despite having exhausting job duties
Example: The ship’s captain assigned the worst duties to the peon.

Word: Peppy
Meaning: energetic and high-spirited
Example: The cheerleader was overly peppy at the football game in an effort to pump up the crowd.

Word: Per capita
Meaning: per person
Example: Americans love tomatoes and the United States imports the most tomatoes per capita than any other country in the world.

Word: Per se
Meaning: by itself or as such
Example: “I have completed the report per se;” the employee showed his own report told his boss; “and had to stay up all night to complete it.”

Word: Peradventure
Meaning: doubt or uncertainty
Example: Her peradventure about the exam made her doubt her ability on standardized tests.

Word: Perambulate
Meaning: to travel over; especially on foot
Example: They decided to take a short cut and perambulate over the large hill.

Word: Perambulator
Meaning: a stroller
Example: The baby was being pushed in the stroller-like perambulator on a sunny day.

Word: Perceive
Meaning: to view or become aware of
Example: Sometimes I am so concerned about how others perceive me that I do not always listen to my own voice.

Word: Percentage
Meaning: an amount in each hundred
Example: The percentage of the high school dropout rate has decreased from 22 percent to 14 percent.

Word: Percentile
Meaning: a certain percentage of a whole; usually on a scale of 100
Example: Because the overweight toddler is in the 99th weight percentile; his doctor suggested diet changes.

Word: Perceptible
Meaning: able to be noted or observed
Example: She spoke softly; and her words were barely perceptible.

Word: Perception
Meaning: a way of understanding or regarding a particular subject
Example: Your perception of the world around you is dictated primarily by your five senses; and how you understand the world changes drastically if you are lacking one of them.

Word: Perceptive
Meaning: very aware and sensitive to events around them
Example: As the experienced shoplifter swiped a necklace from the open case in the jewelry store; the perceptive owner of the store realized what he did.

Word: Perceptively
Meaning: showing insight and intelligence through action
Example: The wise doctor perceptively diagnosed the patient without expensive tests.

Word: Perceptual
Meaning: the ability to interpret and perceive
Example: Perceptual learning relies on students’ sensory systems to naturally draw conclusions.

Word: Perch
Meaning: to settle or land on a raised area or site
Example: The birds commonly perch on the strong cable wire before diving down to the ground below.

Word: Perch
Meaning: to sit and rest
Example: Birds sit and perch in their cages at the pet store.

Word: Perchance
Meaning: perhaps; by chance
Example: If we were more self-confident; perchance we would feel better about ourselves.

Word: Percipient
Meaning: to have a good perspective of things
Example: He was percipient to the novel because he understood the plot from start to finish.

Word: Percolate
Meaning: to gradually penetrate
Example: During the gas leak; the fumes seemed to percolate the entire house.

Word: Percussion
Meaning: an instrument that makes music when struck
Example: Of all the instruments; the drums were the highlight of the band’s percussion performance.

Word: Perdition 
Meaning: unending damnation
Example: The minister told me the road to perdition was paved with the sins of mankind.

Word: Peregrination 
Meaning: the act of wandering or drifting around
Example: A peregrination of the huge mall left us all with throbbing feet.

Word: Peremptory
Meaning: used to describe an order; command; etc.; that you must obey without any questions or excuses
Example: In a peremptory tone; the flight attendant told the passenger to either fasten his seatbelt or get off the plane.

Word: Perennial
Meaning: lasting or remaining active throughout the year; or all the time
Example: Every election seems to continue to deal with the same perennial issues that have been the focus of all the previous elections.

Word: Perfect
Meaning: complete in all respects; flawless
Example: The detail information given to the online recipes; gives me a perfect dish every time.

Word: Perfection
Meaning: flawless or unblemished physically; mentally; and spiritually
Example: Many see models as a symbol of physical perfection; but they have just as many flaws as the average person.

Word: Perfidious
Meaning: not able to be trusted
Example: When questioned about his ex-wife; Eric described her as a perfidious woman who could not be faithful to any man.

Word: Perfidy
Meaning: behavior that shows that someone cannot be trusted
Example: Because my husband’s perfidy hurt me terribly; I served him with divorce papers.

Word: Perforate
Meaning: to pierce or penetrate and make holes in
Example: If she would perforate the paper; she would be able to place it in her notebook rings.

Word: Perforce
Meaning: because of circumstances or necessity
Example: The paroled criminal must perforce obey the law or otherwise he will be imprisoned again.

Word: Perform
Meaning: to carry out or fulfill a task
Example: The doctor will perform an exam on the patient and report back with the results.

Word: Perform
Meaning: to do a function or action
Example: The new computer I have can perform an array of tasks my last one didn’t offer.

Word: Performance
Meaning: an activity that a person or group does
Example: The baseball player’s performance was a lot better this game than the last time he played.

Word: Perfunctory
Meaning: done routinely and with little interest or care
Example: The beauty queen waved so often that her greeting was simply perfunctory.

Word: Perigee
Meaning: the point in the orbit of the moon or a satellite at which it is nearest to the earth
Example: Because the moon is at its closest to the earth during perigee; the gravitational pull is stronger and tides increase.

Word: Peril
Meaning: grave and imminent danger
Example: Since your life is in peril; I suggest you run!

Word: Perilous
Meaning: full of danger
Example: Since the journey is perilous; be sure to bring a first-aid kit.

Word: Perimeter
Meaning: the border of an area or figure
Example: The fence around my house identifies the perimeter of my property.

Word: Period
Meaning: the range of time when something happens
Example: It was reported on the news that eight people were killed by gun violence over a period of three days.

Word: Periodic
Meaning: occurring regularly or at specific intervals of time
Example: The parole officer shows up at the woman’s home for periodic checks every month.

Word: Periodical
Meaning: occasional or appearing at different intervals
Example: Taking periodical breaks; the college freshman was able to finish his college paper in one night.

Word: Peripatetic
Meaning: traveling from place to place
Example: Rather than limit myself to one destination; I like to take a more peripatetic vacation where I move around from place to place.

Word: Peripheral
Meaning: relating to minor matters
Example: The boss is too concerned about peripheral issues that do not matter to notice our sales are at an all-time low.

Word: Periphery 
Meaning: the area that borders a thing or place
Example: If the tennis ball touches or goes pass the periphery of the white line; a point will be given to the recipient of the serve.

Word: Periscope
Meaning: a viewing instrument; in the shape of a tube comprised of mirrors and lenses; that allows a viewer to obtain a clear field of sight
Example: Although the soldier was positioned in a ditch; he was able to use a periscope to observe the enemy camp above ground.

Word: Perish
Meaning:  pass away; rot or decay
Example: Without enough lifejackets; someone might perish at sea.

Word: Peristalsis
Meaning: rhythmic; wave-like contraction of the digestive tract that forces food through it
Example: Muscular peristalsis helps keep food moving downward through wavelike contractions.

Word: Perjury
Meaning: giving false testimony after swearing to state the truth
Example: During his testimony; Jim committed perjury when he misled the court about his wife’s whereabouts.

Word: Perk
Meaning: a bonus or incentive
Example: Since the perk to working at the restaurant was the free meals; the young man decided to take this job.

Word: Perky
Meaning: lively or enthusiastic
Example: After drinking two cups of strong coffee and three espresso shots; Steven was so perky that he was doing cartwheels around his office.

Word: Permafrost
Meaning: a soil layer; typically found in extremely cold regions; that remains frozen for a very long time
Example: The cold temperature in the Arctic region keeps the permafrost frozen.

Word: Permanence
Meaning: the state of being fixed or stable
Example: The couple enjoy spending time together but know the relationship isn’t one of permanence.

Word: Permanent
Meaning: something that will last indefinitely; cannot be changed; or erased
Example: The location of your birth is permanent; as it is a fact that will never change no matter how old you get or where you go in life.

Word: Permeable
Meaning: that absorbs or allows the passage of fluids or gases
Example: The permeable material allowed a large amount of water to seep through.

Word: Permeate
Meaning: to pass or spread through
Example: When the skunk’s spray began to permeate the car; my sister and I jumped out the vehicle and ran down the road.

Word: Permissible
Meaning: permitted
Example: Jack hired a lawyer to fight his speeding ticket because he claims that he was driving at a permissible speed.

Word: Permissive
Meaning: giving permission; or predisposed to give it; lenient
Example: Timmy's mother was too permissive; allowing him to do what he wanted when he wanted.

Word: Permit
Meaning: to give authorization to do something
Example: My mother; in all of her graciousness; has decided to permit me to go to the party with my friends; even though my dad does not think I should.

Word: Permutation
Meaning: one of the forms or conditions in which something occurs or can be positioned
Example: In time; the bacteria will undergo a permutation that will make it unaffected by antibiotics.

Word: Pernicious
Meaning: highly injurious or destructive
Example: The pernicious cycle of abuse within their family must be stopped.

Word: Peroration
Meaning: the conclusion of a speech designed to drive the message home
Example: The President’s peroration was extremely passionate and heartfelt; reinforcing the message that we all had to stick together as a nation.

Word: Perpendicular
Meaning: precisely upright or vertical at a ninety-degree angle
Example: The cross is made of two wooden boards with one of them placed in a perpendicular position over the other one.

Word: Perpetrate 
Meaning: to execute or carry out
Example: I can’t believe my best friend would perpetrate such an act of betrayal.

Word: Perpetrator 
Meaning: one who performs a crime or offence
Example: The perpetrator hid behind the trash can and hoped the police would not find him.

Word: Perpetual
Meaning: continuing forever; constant; never-ending
Example: The country is in a perpetual war; with no end in sight.

Word: Perpetuate
Meaning: to cause to continue
Example: If you yell at Jane after she yells at you; your actions will only perpetuate the argument.

Word: Perpetuity
Meaning: forevermore or permanently
Example: The greedy investor wanted to receive a royalty off the product in perpetuity.

Word: Perplex
Meaning: to puzzle or confuse
Example: According to the book reviewer; the author’s puzzling writing style will perplex many readers.

Word: Perplexity
Meaning: a confused mental state
Example: He was confused by her words so he stared at her in perplexity.

Word: Perquisite
Meaning: a privilege; gain; or a special benefit; perk
Example: Ronald considers his pension to be the most desirable perquisite of his profession.

Word: Persecute
Meaning: to afflict constantly so as to injure or distress
Example: The town tried to persecute a homeowner after they found out he was gay.

Word: Persecution 
Meaning: a campaign designed to harm someone because of a cultural; sexual; religious; or racial difference
Example: The national hate crime laws were initially enacted to prevent the persecution of minorities.

Word: Perseverance
Meaning: resolve that allows one to continue with a duty or task regardless of difficulty or previous attempts
Example: The disabled young man’s perseverance allowed him to complete the marathon.

Word: Persevere
Meaning: to persist in completing a task or meeting a goal
Example: If you want to achieve your goal; your must persevere despite all obstacles.

Word: Persiflage 
Meaning: dialogue that is joking and playful
Example: Since you used persiflage; I knew you were joking about my appearance.

Word: Persimmon
Meaning: a reddish-orange sweet fruit that is similar to a plum
Example: After pulling a persimmon off the tree; the young girl took a bite into the juicy rosy produce tasting its sugary flesh.

Word: Persist
Meaning: to strongly maintain or carry on
Example: Once the detectives decided to persist with their interrogation for ten hours; the suspect finally confessed to the crime.

Word: Persistence
Meaning: the ability to continue on with something in spite of difficulty or opposition
Example: His persistence at practicing paid off when he made every free throw shot during the game.

Word: Persistent 
Meaning: not stopping; continuous
Example: Although I have been taking medicine for two weeks; I still cannot get rid of this persistent cough.

Word: Persnickety
Meaning: being overly focused on small details
Example: The persnickety housewife couldn’t stand for anything to be out of place in her perfect home.

Word: Persona non grata
Meaning: someone who is unwanted or blacklisted for some perceived fault
Example: Alex threw a fit when her former best friend showed up to her birthday party because she was a persona non grata and not on the guest list.

Word: Persona
Meaning: the appearance one has around other people
Example: Even though Jason is a kind kid; he wears the persona of a tough thug when he is with his friends.

Word: Personable 
Meaning: having a pleasant personality
Example: The personable flight attendant went out of her way to make me feel at ease on my first flight.

Word: Personage
Meaning: an important person; notable
Example: He doesn’t look familiar; but he must be a very important personage to have a prominent spot in the photo shoot.

Word: Personal
Meaning: something that only relates or applies to the person in question
Example: Never put personal information like your home address; birthdate; or social security number on the internet.

Word: Personality
Meaning: the attitude; temperament; and disposition of someone
Example: Many people loved Cassie’s personality because she would always make you laugh with her wonderful sense of humor and kindness.

Word: Personalize
Meaning: to customize something or tailor it to specific needs
Example: The company was able to personalize my phone case by adding a picture and my initials to it.

Word: Personification
Meaning: a thing or individual that embodies a specific quality
Example: The queen was the personification of royalty as she waved from her coach.

Word: Personify
Meaning: to give the qualities of a human being to a thing or concept
Example: People often personify their cars by giving them human names.

Word: Personnel
Meaning: employees or workforce of a company
Example: All building personnel were evacuated after a gas leak occurred close to the home office.

Word: Perspective
Meaning: the way an individual views something
Example: After the near-fatal car accident; Sharon changed her perspective on life and decided to quit her job.

Word: Perspicacious
Meaning: able to judge quickly and correctly what people and situations are really like
Example: Even though the judge was normally a perspicacious woman; she found it hard to not be affected by the guilty man’s plea.

Word: Perspicacity
Meaning: the ability to notice and understand things that are not obvious
Example: The detective’s perspicacity allowed him to easily recognize the criminal in the crowd.

Word: Perspicuity
Meaning: clearness that is easy to understand
Example: Lack of perspicuity made the mayor’s speech confusing and bewildering.

Word: Perspicuous
Meaning: easy to comprehend
Example: Because my son needed to work on his reading comprehension skills; I bought him several perspicuous books.

Word: Perspiration
Meaning: salty; watery fluid secreted by the sweat glands
Example: Bob uses as much antiperspirant deodorant that he can; because he hates the feeling of perspiration trickling from his armpits.

Word: Persuade
Meaning: to convince an individual or group to do something
Example: If your friends try to persuade you to break the law; you should consider making new friends.

Word: Pert
Meaning: well-formed; attractive
Example: The baby has ten well-formed; pert little fingers and toes.

Word: Pertain
Meaning: related or connected to the subject being referenced
Example: The statistics found in the study pertain to the relationship between coffee drinking and poor sleep habits.

Word: Pertinacious
Meaning: firm on achieving a task
Example: The pertinacious girl would not stop trying to sell cookies to the toothless man.

Word: Pertinent
Meaning: relevant to a particular matter
Example: To ensure a prompt reply; please include all pertinent details in your email.

Word: Perturb
Meaning: to upset a person
Example: The troublesome lad does everything he can to perturb the girl sitting in front of him.

Word: Perturbation
Meaning: the condition of being distressed
Example: My mother’s perturbation was caused by my father’s sudden death.

Word: Perturbed
Meaning: worried or disturbed by something
Example: My coworker’s remarks about my figure perturbed me so I started to avoid him.

Word: Peruse
Meaning: to read or examine carefully; to look over casually
Example: Peruse the manual to set up your television.

Word: Pervade
Meaning: to spread through all parts
Example: The awful smell from the sewage plant seemed to pervade throughout our house.

Word: Pervasive
Meaning: capable of affecting or influencing everything
Example: The media’s pervasive coverage of the epidemic has most of the country living in fear.

Word: Perverse
Meaning: not normal or proper
Example: The serial killer found perverse pleasure in every murder he committed.

Word: Perversion
Meaning: human behavior; especially that of a sexual nature; that isn’t considered normal or moral
Example: The man’s perversion of the truth caused him to believe things that were abnormal were acceptable.

Word: Pervert
Meaning: to distort or corrupt something
Example: Dan’s jealous coworker tried to pervert his boss’s view of him; but the evil plan didn’t work.

Word: Pesky
Meaning: irritating; annoying
Example: Swatting at the pesky fly; Granny wished that she could kill the irritating creature once and for all.

Word: Pessimism
Meaning: the habit of always seeing things in the worst light
Example: Ruby’s pessimism convinced her she was too old to go back to school.

Word: Pessimistic
Meaning: negative in outlook
Example: Because Helen has a pessimistic attitude; she never believes anything good will happen to her.

Word: Pester
Meaning: to bother someone with several questions or requests to the point that it becomes a point of anger
Example: Brian hated when his annoying little cousin visited because he liked to pester him with a hundred questions.

Word: Pestiferous
Meaning: carrying infection or disease
Example: Because they are pestiferous; infected mosquitos can easily spread disease from area to area.

Word: Pestilence
Meaning: a devastating illness or disease that causes a large number of individuals to die
Example: When AIDS first emerged onto the scene; it was viewed as one of the worst cases of pestilence the world has ever seen.

Word: Pestilent
Meaning: producing irritation
Example: Because John has a pestilent personality; he annoys many of the kids in his class.

Word: Pestilential
Meaning: capable of producing a devastating and contagious disease
Example: The families in low-income housing were affected by a contagious illness caused by pestilential rodents.

Word: Pestle
Meaning: handheld tool used to grind or crush substances up
Example: In order to get the dog to take his medicine; the owner had to crush the pill with a pestle.

Word: Petal
Meaning: one of the soft colored leafs surrounding the center of a flower
Example: Due to its lack of water; each drooping petal fell from the plant’s stem onto the ground until the plant was bare.

Word: Petard
Meaning: a small bomb that is used to breach a door or wall
Example: The soldier through a petard at the entrance and waited for the bomb to blow before rushing inside.

Word: Petite
Meaning: comparatively little or tiny
Example: As the petite woman walked into the basement with the low ceiling; she certainly didn’t have to duck like everyone else.

Word: Petition
Meaning: an official document that makes a request and is signed by supporters
Example: A nonviolent way to protest a law is by signing a petition requesting the annulment of the law.

Word: Petrified
Meaning: extremely afraid
Example: Ashley is petrified of flying which is why she plans on travelling by bus to Houston for her nephew’s wedding.

Word: Petrify
Meaning: to scare someone into inaction
Example: Because heights petrify me; I will never get on a plane.

Word: Petty
Meaning: small and insignificant
Example: The officer did not arrest the teen for the petty crime.

Word: Petulance
Meaning: characterized by being bad-tempered and unreasonable; especially because you cannot do or have what you want
Example: After getting a shot; the infant showed increased signs of petulance and would not stop crying.

Word: Petulant
Meaning: to describe a person or behavior that is irritable; especially in a childish way
Example: He was a petulant child who was aggravated by the smallest things.

Word: Pew
Meaning: a long bench inside a church which holds several people
Example: In our small church; the front pew is reserved for the choir.

Word: Phalanx
Meaning: a body of troops or police officers; standing or moving in close formation
Example: A phalanx of soldiers marched in lockstep; while belting out slogans of war.

Word: Phantasm
Meaning: something seen but isn't real and exists only in your imagination
Example: The boy thought he saw a ghost; when it was simply a phantasm he perpetuated out of fear.

Word: Phantasmagoria
Meaning: a bizarre combination or collection
Example: If you are under the influence of alcohol or drugs; everything you experience may seem like a phantasmagoria; akin to a hazy dream.

Word: Phantom
Meaning: a ghost
Example: In her dream; Suzan was attempting to flee from a phantom that kept on getting closer; but for some reason she could not run away.

Word: Pharaoh
Meaning: a ruler in ancient Egypt
Example: The Pharaoh of the bible enslaved the Jews and was ultimately drowned at sea.

Word: Phase
Meaning: a distinguishable part of a sequence or cycle occurring over time
Example: The road widening project from two lanes to four is only at the initial phase and upon the completion is expected to help with traffic flow.

Word: Phenomenal
Meaning: astonishing; extremely remarkable
Example: After seeing the play; the critics praised the young actress on her phenomenal talent.

Word: Phenomenon
Meaning: a person or thing that is often awe-inspiring because of its unique quality
Example: The four-year-old boy was considered a phenomenon because he could play the piano like a master pianist.

Word: Phenotype
Meaning: the physical appearance of an organism resulting from its genetic makeup and environmental influence
Example: In the lab; we studied the effect of the weather on an albino mouse’s phenotype to see if the creature’s outward appearance changed.

Word: Phew
Meaning: to convey a sense of relief; fatigue; surprise; disgust when something hard is finished or no longer worried about something
Example: “Phew; that was a close call and glad the car moved back into its proper lane before she hit us.”

Word: Philander
Meaning: to shamelessly flirt or take advantage of sexually
Example: He was a known flirt who liked to philander with several women.

Word: Philanthropist
Meaning: an individual who is very generous to others
Example: The technology mogul is a philanthropist who gave over fifty million dollars to colleges and universities last year.

Word: Philanthropy
Meaning: the act of donating time and money to help others
Example: My children realize helping others through philanthropy is much better than wasting money on foolish toys.

Word: Philippic
Meaning: a nasty tirade against a thing or individual
Example: The editor’s philippic about the disgraced politician was incredibly spiteful.

Word: Philistine 
Meaning: one who focuses on materialistic pursuits and has no appreciation of culture and art
Example: Only a philistine would destroy such a priceless portrait!

Word: Philology
Meaning: the study of historical prose; poetry and linguistic fields
Example: After taking my courses in Philology; Literature; Western Civilization and Poetry; I was ready to get my English and History degrees.

Word: Philosopher
Meaning: someone who provides answers or deep explanations on reason and beliefs
Example: Plato was a philosopher who was known for his theories about thinking and reasoning.

Word: Philosophize
Meaning: to think to oneself or talk on deep; serious or fundamental issues; like the meaning of life
Example: While attending the party; many attendees began to philosophize about their own beliefs.

Word: Philosophy
Meaning: a study or branch that includes the deep explanations on reason and beliefs
Example: After studying philosophy at school; Pete now understands the reason people act the way they do.

Word: Phlegmatic
Meaning: not easily upset; excited; or angered
Example: The minister of my church is a phlegmatic man who never seems to get upset about anything.

Word: Phobia
Meaning: an unreasonable fear
Example: Ellen’s clown phobia makes her afraid to go to the circus.

Word: Phonetic
Meaning: relating to the sounds of speech
Example: The teacher helped the student with his phonetic errors and soon he was able to correctly sound out most words starting with the letter “r”.

Word: Phonics
Meaning: a method of instructing reading which focuses on the way letters and syllables sound separately and together
Example: At an early age; students learn how to read by blending letter sounds and syllables in phonics lessons.

Word: Phonology
Meaning: refers to relationships among speech sounds
Example: Phonology is the series of noises that establishes the components of a spoken language.

Word: Phony
Meaning: fraudulent; fake; having a misleading appearance
Example: Although the man claimed to be a doctor; no one was fooled by that glib phony.

Word: Phosphate
Meaning: a fizzy drink containing water; sweet liquid and an acid
Example: In the mid-1900s; many customers would order phosphate sodas because they wanted a bubbly drink.

Word: Phosphorescence
Meaning: a glowing illuminated object caused by radiation
Example: The walls showed brightly through the darkness in the room due to the phosphorescence in the paint.

Word: Phosphorous
Meaning: a reactive natural substance that is both necessary for life but also toxic in large amounts
Example: Farmers were very careful when selecting a fertilizer for their crops since some of them contained an abundance of phosphorous.

Word: Photobomb
Meaning: to spoil one’s picture by suddenly placing oneself in front of the camera
Example: Mr. Curtis likes to jump in front of students’ cameras and photobomb those trying to take selfies during class.

Word: Photogenic
Meaning: looking good when photographed
Example: Although Rachel claims that she does not look good in pictures; I think that she is the most photogenic student in our class.

Word: Photograph
Meaning: a picture taken with a camera usually so the event can be remembered later
Example: As we walked down the aisle; I took a photograph using my cell phone of the famous celebrity so I could have a memento of the occasion.

Word: Photographer
Meaning: someone who creates pictures using a camera for a job
Example: The wedding photographer asked the couple to pose together as he made sure the lighting was favorable for the scene.

Word: Photographic
Meaning: relating to taking pictures with a camera
Example: Judge Stanley required proof of the damage to the plaintiff’s car by having the plaintiff submit photographic images of it.

Word: Photography
Meaning: using illumination and a camera to create pictures of objects
Example: While the young woman positioned the camera with the sun behind her back; the couple realized she had probably studied photography.

Word: Photometer
Meaning: a device that gauges intensity of light
Example: After the photometer broke; the camera was worthless since it produced only dark pictures.

Word: Photon
Meaning: a small atom or unit in the category of electrically charged things
Example: When the photon is at rest; it has not weight or volume to it but does have other identifying properties.

Word: Photosynthesis
Meaning: the biological process in which plants turn carbon dioxide and water into nourishment
Example: If not for photosynthesis; plants would perish from a lack of nutrients.

Word: Phraseology
Meaning: phraseology is a choice of words
Example: All of the legal jargon and phraseology can be confusing to those not in the industry.

Word: Phrenology
Meaning: phrenology is the study of the cranium to learn of one’s character and mental abilities
Example: Phrenology is the study of the human skull and its effect on mental wellness.

Word: Phylum
Meaning: phylum is a taxonomic naming level between kingdom and class
Example: The biology teacher explained the correlation between the phylum of an organism and its traits.

Word: Physical change
Meaning: an alterable conversion usually in a substance’s form and volume but does not affect the chemical structure
Example: As the ice melted into a puddle that now covered the table; its physical change was transformed from a solid to a liquid.

Word: Physical Property
Meaning: aspects of objects that are observable and often used to describe them; such as color or texture
Example: One of the most notable aspect of a stereotypical apple is the color red; a physical property that most all humans can observe.

Word: Physical
Meaning: physical means relating to the body
Example: For some of the athletes; football practice was too aggressive and physical on the neck.

Word: Physicality
Meaning: involvement of a lot of physical contact
Example: The physicality of the football game made the players at risk for injury.

Word: Physician
Meaning: a physician is a doctor
Example: The orthopedic physician repairs broken bones.

Word: Physicist
Meaning: a physicist is one who is an expert in physics
Example: The thermometer was invented by a German physicist named Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit.

Word: Physics
Meaning: branch of science concerned with the properties of matter and energy
Example: The study of physics is critical to the science of projectiles; since physics deals with how things move and the energy that propels them.

Word: Physiognomy
Meaning: the face or exterior of an object or region viewed as a way of understanding character
Example: Looking at Jake’s physiognomy; it was impossible to ignore the stress lines that told the story of his hard life.

Word: Physiological
Meaning: of; or relating to physiology
Example: When working out at the gym I experience a positive physiological change; as my heart beat starts to pick up its pace.

Word: Physique
Meaning: a physique is the size and type of a person’s body
Example: The marathoner’s physique is slender and tall.

Word: Piano
Meaning: a piano is a keyboard instrument
Example: A piano is a musical instrument that is played by pressing keys on a keyboard.

Word: Picayune
Meaning: insignificant; small
Example: While twenty dollars may seem like a picayune sum to you; it is a fortune to a starving person.

Word: Picket
Meaning: action taken by unhappy workers in which they stand outside of their workplace and protest something to bring about a change
Example: The plant workers continue to picket around the factory; raising their signs in protest of the unsafe work conditions.

Word: Pickwickian
Meaning: having the attributes of innocence and naiveté
Example: The pickwickian young girl believed everything he brother told her.

Word: Picnic
Meaning: a picnic is a meal eaten outdoors usually on the ground
Example: We had a picnic in the park where we ate sandwiches on the ground under a tree.

Word: Pictograph
Meaning: a pictograph is a visual depiction of information
Example: A bar graph was drawn as a pictograph to illustrate the data for the class.

Word: Pictorial
Meaning: pictorial means to be expressed in pictures
Example: The pictorial novel was a hit with people who disliked reading and enjoyed looking at pictures.

Word: Picture
Meaning: representation of a visible reality produced by painting; drawing; photograph; etc.
Example: When we had a family reunion and looked through old photographs; I saw a picture of the house I spent my childhood in.

Word: Picturesque 
Meaning: having the attributes of a painting or picture
Example: The picturesque postcard made me dream I was on the beach.

Word: Piddling
Meaning: piddling means useless petty and trivial
Example: I am tired of your petty piddling questions that have nothing to do with the issue at hand.

Word: Piddling
Meaning: trivial and petty in importance or significance
Example: Amy tends to get upset of the most piddling things; crying and carrying on about nothing.

Word: Pidgin
Meaning: a grammatically simplified form of a language; used for communication between people not sharing a common language
Example: Speaking in pidgin; both the Nigerian and the Ghanaian were able to understand each other.

Word: Piece
Meaning: a piece is a part of a whole
Example: I will share small piece of my pie; but I will not give the whole pie away.

Word: Piecemeal 
Meaning: made bit by bit
Example: Building the pyramids took years because the required effort was extensive and required piecemeal progress.

Word: Pied
Meaning: pied means having two or more different colors
Example: The young children rode the tan and brown pied colored pony at the birthday party.

Word: Piedmont
Meaning: a piedmont is gentle slope leading from the base of mountains to a region of flat land
Example: The piedmont at the base of the Andes Mountains leads to a small farming village.

Word: Pier
Meaning: a tall and long dock for boats or people that extends out several yards into a body of water
Example: Standing on the pier; the couple watched the surfers tackle the large waves as water crashed along the pier’s wooden posts.

Word: Pierce 
Meaning: to make a hole in something with a sharp object
Example: The native used a spear to pierce the fish swimming in the stream.

Word: Pierce
Meaning: (Of a sharp object) to penetrate or puncture something
Example: As I stepped on the broken glass; I felt something sharp pierce my skin.

Word: Piety
Meaning: respect and devotion to a higher power or religious organization
Example: The millionaire’s act of piety was a huge donation that allowed the church to build homes for five needy families.

Word: Piffle
Meaning: nonsense or rubbish
Example: Mason’s brain was filled with piffle because all he thought about was dragon nonsense.

Word: Pigeonhole
Meaning: a small compartment
Example: Instead of big expensive lockers; students had access to a small pigeonhole where one or two books could fit.

Word: Piggyback
Meaning: to carry someone on your back or shoulders
Example: Because it rained a lot today; my dad gave me a piggyback ride to the car so I wouldn’t get my new shoes wet and muddy.

Word: Pigment
Meaning: a natural substance that gives color to something else
Example: The paint store was unable to match the pigment sample.

Word: Pile
Meaning: a heap or mound of things
Example: “Look over there; there is a massive pile of leaves.”

Word: Pilfer
Meaning: to take illegally in small amounts
Example: The maid hoped she could pilfer her wealthy employer’s jewelry bit by bit so the thievery would go unnoticed.

Word: Pilferage
Meaning: the recurrent theft of small items of little value
Example: The pilferage of the house resulted in the owners having a roll of toilet paper stolen.

Word: Pilgarlic
Meaning: bald
Example: The glossy pilgarlic head was so bare that it was reflecting sunlight.

Word: Pilgrim
Meaning: an English Puritan who founded the colony of Plymouth; Massachusetts
Example: A female pilgrim’s attire included a gown that covered the early settler’s entire body.

Word: Pilgrimage
Meaning: a trip or journey; usually for religious purposes
Example: As part of his religious education; Ahmad is required to make a pilgrimage to Mecca.

Word: Pillage
Meaning: to take by force; normally during a war or battle
Example: The general was a decent man and did not allow any of his soldiers to pillage items from towns they invaded.

Word: Pillar
Meaning: a tall upright structure made of stone; wood; or metal; to be used as a support for a building
Example: A pillar is a large post supporting a piece or pieces of architecture.

Word: Pillory
Meaning: 
Example: During the colonial period; thieves were often locked in a pillory in the town square where they would suffer public humiliation.

Word: Pilose
Meaning: to be covered in long soft hairs
Example: The pilose cat was named “Fluffy” due to its cottony; soft; and furry hair.

Word: Pilot
Meaning: one who operates aircraft
Example: The pilot navigated his crop duster airplane over the crops to spray them with fertilizer.

Word: Pin
Meaning: a small piece of metal used to fasten or attach things
Example: Because I won first place in the science fair; there was a pin attached to my project with a prize ribbon.

Word: Pinch
Meaning: to tightly grip using a finger and thumb
Example: Since his body fat percentage is six percent; you can’t pinch an inch from his waist.

Word: Pine
Meaning: an evergreen coniferous tree
Example: The trees that release a distinct strong pine scent are evergreen pine trees.

Word: Ping
Meaning: a sharp sound; like that of metal striking something
Example: While making a toast to the bride and groom; the woman tapped her glass with a high-pitched ping.

Word: Pining
Meaning: to yearn or long for something or someone
Example: While her husband was deployed overseas; Melia was missing and pining for him until he came home.

Word: Pinion
Meaning: wing of a bird
Example: The crow’s injured pinion left it unable to fly properly.

Word: Pinnacle
Meaning: the uppermost level achievable
Example: At the pinnacle of her career; Gail was on the cover of every entertainment magazine.

Word: Pinpoint
Meaning: to find precision and accuracy
Example: Emergency workers are trained to pinpoint people trapped in collapsed buildings or forests.

Word: Pioneer 
Meaning: an individual who prepares a path for others
Example: The computer pioneer was one of the first people to visualize a mobile computer.

Word: Pious
Meaning: deeply religious
Example: The students running around naked at Berkley Catholic University do not seem very pious.

Word: Pipe Dream
Meaning: a goal or ambition generally regarded as unattainable
Example: At one time; man being capable of going into space was nothing more than a pipe dream; laughed at by the masses and the wise alike.

Word: Pipe
Meaning: a tube that is used to transport fluid
Example: Since a water pipe burst; we had no running water until it was repaired the next day.

Word: Pipeline
Meaning: a long pipe; usually underground; for transporting oil and gas
Example: Installing the underground pipeline created hundreds of jobs in the community.

Word: Pippin
Meaning: an apple
Example: We made a fruit cobbler with my favorite dessert apple; the pippin.

Word: Piquancy
Meaning: agreeably pungent to the taste
Example: I was disappointed the Mexican restaurants salsa has no piquancy whatsoever and ask the waitress to remove this from the bill.

Word: Piquant
Meaning: appealing or delightful
Example: We were thrilled when we arrived at the piquant bed and breakfast on our honeymoon night.

Word: Pique 
Meaning: to trigger curiosity or interest
Example: Hopefully the movie trailer will pique the interest of moviegoers and motivate them to buy tickets to see the film.

Word: Piracy
Meaning: the practice of hijacking; stealing; or reproducing the works and goods of another person
Example: Piracy is a difficult crime to punish because it is often committed online.

Word: Pirate
Meaning: the act of stealing or reproducing a copyrighted work for profit
Example: Many people pirate games and music from the internet by downloading them illegally and free of charge.

Word: Pirogue
Meaning: a pirogue is a long narrow canoe
Example: They paddled across the river in the narrow pirogue.

Word: Pirouette
Meaning: a ballet move that requires spinning on foot with the raised foot pressed against your knee
Example: The pirouette is a famous spin move used in both ballet and figure skating.

Word: Piscine
Meaning: anything about or related to fish
Example: Fishing is a distinctly piscine activity.

Word: Pistil
Meaning: the feminine parts of a flower; consisting of the stigma; ovary; and style that are responsible for producing seeds
Example: Similar to humans; flower seeds are formed in the pistil of a female flower.

Word: Pit
Meaning: a large hole in the ground
Example: He fell into a pit that was over fifty feet deep.

Word: Pitch
Meaning: the degree of highness or lowness used in a musical performance
Example: The range of her pitch was high in some parts of the song and low in others.

Word: Pitcher
Meaning: a large container with a handle and a spout used for holding liquid
Example: Because mine is the best; Mom asked me to make a pitcher of sweet tea to serve our guests.

Word: Piteous 
Meaning: provoking pity
Example: After being stuck in the rain all night; the puppy looked piteous.

Word: Pitfall
Meaning: potential problem; difficulty; or danger
Example: The experienced programmer did not expect the pitfall that would occur when trying to install the new software.

Word: Pith
Meaning: spongy tissue in animals and plants
Example: The heart of a watermelon is the best part because he pith tastes the best.

Word: Pithy
Meaning: using few words in a clever and effective way
Example: A popular speaker; Janet was known for her pithy sayings.

Word: Pitiable
Meaning: pitiful; pathetic
Example: The business man’s unfortunate fall from grace to homelessness made him pitiable to most.

Word: Pitiable
Meaning: deserving pity or sympathy
Example: Even though Mary lost her job; I don’t find it to be pitiable because she has already found a better one.

Word: Pitied
Meaning: to have feelings of sadness or sorrow for others
Example: Even though he was a Union soldier; the private pitied the confederate homeowners who lost everything during the war.

Word: Pitiful
Meaning: producing pity
Example: As soon as Kate heard the stray cat’s pitiful cries; she took fresh water and food outside.

Word: Pitiless
Meaning: ruthless; unmerciful; and without remorse
Example: The judge was pitiless when sentencing the murderer to the death penalty.

Word: Pittance 
Meaning: a tiny amount of something
Example: The housekeeper was unable to pay her bills with the pittance her employers paid her.

Word: Pity
Meaning: sorrow or sympathy
Example:  I feel pity for the homeless people who don’t have a warm place to sleep in the winter.

Word: Pivot
Meaning: to turn or rotate on a fixed point
Example: During the recital; the ballerinas pivot on their tiptoes simultaneously to the speed of the music.

Word: Pivotal
Meaning: of crucial significance
Example: The fighter planes gave pivotal assistance to the ground forces that were surrounded by the enemy.

Word: Pixelated
Meaning: divided into pixels (a picture)
Example: If you blow up the size of a picture without changing the resolution; it will become pixelated.

Word: Placate
Meaning: to appease or pacify
Example: I tried to placate the sad little boy by giving him a cookie.

Word: Place
Meaning: to put something in a particular position
Example: Trish asked her maid to place the new vase of flowers in the center of the desk.

Word: Placebo
Meaning: a substance with no medical effect that is given either to patients or individuals involved in a drug trial
Example: Because I was given a placebo during the drug test; my medical condition did not improve.

Word: Placement
Meaning: a job; post or position to which someone is assigned
Example: Happy with his new placement; the former janitor was delighted that he was promoted to a sales rep in just a year.

Word: Placid
Meaning: not easily upset or excited
Example: Even when the emergency room was packed with patients; the staff remained placid and calmly did their duties.

Word: Plagiarism
Meaning: using another’s work without having permission or giving credit
Example: The teacher accused Jerry of plagiarism because she knew he could never write such an exceptional paper.

Word: Plague 
Meaning: to constantly bother or distress
Example: Jim likes to plague his younger sister by hiding her dolls.

Word: Plain
Meaning: not luxurious or fancy; ordinary
Example: After trying on many outfits for a dinner date; Holly finally decided to wear a plain black dress.

Word: Plaint
Meaning: a legal complaint against someone made to the court
Example: Once I submitted my complaint and was filed; the judge entered the plaint in the court record.

Word: Plaintiff
Meaning: in court the individual who claims someone else is responsible for a misdeed
Example: After the plaintiff fell on the grocery store’s wet floor; she filed a lawsuit hoping the damages would cover her medical bills.

Word: Plaintive 
Meaning: expressing sorrow
Example: It was obvious from the stray cat’s plaintive cries he was cold and miserable.

Word: Plait
Meaning: braid
Example: The young woman ahead of me in line wore her hair with a plait running down her back and tied at the end.

Word: Planetary
Meaning: relating to planets; or the orbital motion of planets
Example: Mandy asked her teacher; “What are the odds of an asteroid or comet hitting the planet Earth and causing a planetary devastation?”

Word: Plangent
Meaning: having a loud mournful sound
Example: When Allie plays the violin she creates a tone that is melancholy and plangent; at times quite painfully beautiful.

Word: Plankton
Meaning: small organisms that float in the ocean and serve as a food source for many marine animals
Example: Jellyfish are a common type of plankton that can push themselves forward in the sea but can’t swim against current.

Word: Plantation
Meaning: a large area where crops are grown
Example: The slaves labored on the cotton plantation while their owner enjoyed a life of leisure.

Word: Plants
Meaning: a group of living organisms that have leaves; stems; and roots which needs water and sun to live
Example: My sister Belinda removed the dead leaves to expose a tiny shoot of a new plant.

Word: Plasma 
Meaning: the liquid element of blood that transports blood cells
Example: As a starving student; Clint often sold his plasma to a blood bank on the college campus.

Word: Plastic
Meaning: generic term used in the case of polymeric material that can be shaped into different forms
Example: Because glass can break so easily; the children eat off of flexible plastic plates.

Word: Plasticity
Meaning: changeability
Example: Because of the brain’s plasticity; a child who grew up in China can adapt to the English language once he or she has migrated to the U.S.

Word: Plateau 
Meaning: a time or point where no advancement is made
Example: Since my weight loss has hit a plateau; I need to increase my workout to start losing weight again.

Word: Platform
Meaning: a raised surface that supports standing people or things
Example: The speaker stood up on a raised platform so that the crowd could see him.

Word: Platitude
Meaning: something that has been said so often that it is not interesting anymore
Example: Because I have heard your platitude a hundred times; it means nothing to me now.

Word: Platonic
Meaning: describing a relationship without sexual intimacy
Example: My partnership with Alice is strictly platonic because we are both happily married to other people.

Word: Platoon
Meaning: a group of people working together towards a common goal
Example: My friends and I formed a small platoon during our paintball match; working together to defeat the opposing team.

Word: Plaudit
Meaning: a showing of approval or applause
Example: As my daughter accepted her award; she blushed upon hearing the principal’s gracious plaudit.

Word: Plausible
Meaning: something appearing reasonable or probable
Example: When Jason forgot to do his homework; he tried to come up with a plausible excuse his teacher would believe.

Word: Play
Meaning: to take part in an activity
Example: All of the children wanted to play the game; but only a few could take part at one time.

Word: Play
Meaning: act in a manner such as one has fun
Example: “Can I go out and play; now that the clouds have gone away?”

Word: Playful
Meaning: fond of play or fun
Example: Our sons kindergarten teacher eases her students shyness by being playful and making everything seem like a fun game; even when lining up for lunch.

Word: Playwright
Meaning: a person who writes plays
Example: Shakespeare is quite possibly the most well known playwright in the world.

Word: Plea bargain
Meaning: to agree to plead guilty in return for a lesser charge
Example: In order to avoid a long prison sentence; the man accepted the plea bargain that was offered.

Word: Plea
Meaning: an urgent or especially emotional request
Example: The wounded soldier made a plea to his comrades to get him back home; but there was no need to beg as they would never leave him behind.

Word: Plead
Meaning: to make a case for
Example: The first time offender will plead for a short prison sentence.

Word: Pleasant
Meaning: giving pleasure; pleasing in manner; nice
Example: Because Laura is such a pleasant person to be around she is always making new friends.

Word: Pleasanter
Meaning: more friendly or agreeable than something else
Example: Mrs. Hart is the pleasanter of the two teachers; but Mrs. Clark is friendly as well.

Word: Pleasantries
Meaning: polite remarks; usually made by people when they first meet to show they are friendly
Example: As they passed through the streets; the women smiled and exchanged pleasantries with one another.

Word: Please
Meaning: to make someone happy
Example: It is impossible to please everyone; so I just focus on keeping myself happy.

Word: Pleasing
Meaning: satisfying; giving pleasure
Example: The mother’s pleasing voice lulled her baby into a gentle sleep.

Word: Pleasure
Meaning: enjoyment; happiness
Example: Most people enjoy watching television; but I draw pleasure from writing stories.

Word: Plebeian
Meaning: not worthy of the upper classes; ordinary
Example: There is no way the plebeian could afford the country club’s expensive dues.

Word: Plebiscite
Meaning: an election in which individuals cast votes in favor of or against a major proposal or candidate
Example: Do you think voters will come out for the presidential plebiscite this year?

Word: Pledge
Meaning: a promise
Example: I made a pledge that I would go on a date with him; so I can't back out now.

Word: Plenary 
Meaning: attended by all members of a group
Example: At the plenary meeting; all shareholders can vote on the proposal.

Word: Plenitude
Meaning: abundance; plenty
Example: Despite a plenitude of money; the oil tycoon lived very economically.

Word: Plenteous
Meaning: plentiful; abundant
Example: Saturday night’s huge pot of spaghetti was plenteous.

Word: Plentiful 
Meaning: a huge amount
Example: There was a plentiful amount of food at the family reunion.

Word: Plenty
Meaning: enough
Example: There is plenty of smoked ham leftover from lunch; so there’s no need to cook any more meat.

Word: Pleonasm
Meaning: to use more words than necessary
Example: His book was mostly pleonasm because half of it was filled with unnecessary wording.

Word: Plethora
Meaning: an excess of
Example: I don't see why my mother wants more shoes when she already has a plethora of them.

Word: Pliable
Meaning: easily bent or formed
Example: Even though the hose seemed pliable; Henry wasn’t able to curve it around the corner of the house.

Word: Pliant
Meaning: easily manipulated or controlled by people
Example: When the slaves were not pliant; their owners would punish them.

Word: Plication
Meaning: fold or crease
Example: The dress had a small crease and plication in it; but it was soon smoothed out.

Word: Pliers
Meaning: a hand tool used to hold objects firmly
Example: The mechanic used pliers to loosen the bolt because it was too tight to use his hands.

Word: Plight
Meaning: 
Example: Because he was homeless and penniless; Jason’s plight was a miserable one.

Word: Plinth
Meaning: a block of stone or wood that is used as the base of a pillar or statue
Example: Raising the pillar higher; the wood plinth helped sturdy the base significantly.

Word: Plod 
Meaning: to advance slowly through something
Example: After having painful cramps; I could only plod through the race.

Word: Plodding
Meaning: slow and heavy walking
Example: Since Sam grew tired from running; he was seen plodding slowly toward the end of the race.

Word: Plop
Meaning: a thud sound of something being dropped
Example: The baseball fell out of the pitcher’s hand; and it made a plop and thump sound as it hit the ground.

Word: Plot
Meaning: to plan secretly in order to carry out an illegal or harmful idea
Example: The mob members had to plot behind their boss’s back so that he would not find out about their plans to kill him.

Word: Plough
Meaning: a farm tool that breaks up earth and soil
Example: We used a plough to till the soil before we planted cotton.

Word: Plow
Meaning: a tool used to cut ground before planting
Example: Using the plow to loosen the garden’s soil was much easier than tilling by hand.

Word: Ploy 
Meaning: a gimmick or strategy
Example: The store used a bait and switch ploy to get customers to buy a more expensive item.

Word: Pluck
Meaning: to quickly remove something from its place
Example: To shape them perfectly; Paula used her brand new tweezers to pluck excess hair from her eye brows.

Word: Plucky
Meaning: brave and determined
Example: The plucky preschooler stood up to the bully who was taking his friend’s lunch.

Word: Plug
Meaning: an obstruction blocking something
Example: He used a cork to plug the bottle.

Word: Plum
Meaning:  an oval-shaped reddish-purple colored fruit
Example: When I ate a plum; the maroon colored skin stained my fingers.

Word: Plum
Meaning: a purple fruit related to a peach that is fleshy and oval shaped
Example: The little boy picked the pit out of the plum after biting into the sweet flesh of the juicy fruit.

Word: Plumage
Meaning: extravagant dress
Example: The vivid plumage on the ice skater’s costume received more attention than the athlete's routine.

Word: Plumb
Meaning: to explore or delve into
Example: Using the Internet; you can easily plumb your essay topic before writing the paper.

Word: Plumb
Meaning: straight and vertical
Example: When cutting her client’s hair into a bob; Missy made sure it was plumb all the way across.

Word: Plumber
Meaning: a person who installs and repairs water supply and sanitation pipes
Example: A plumber specializes in installing and maintaining systems used for water; sewage; and drainage.

Word: Plume
Meaning: a cloud of smoke; dust; or vapor that spreads into the air
Example: A plume of steam rose up from the place where the geyser bubbled.

Word: Plummet
Meaning: to drop abruptly
Example: When the housing bubble burst; many people saw their property values plummet.

Word: Plump
Meaning: having a full; rounded shape
Example: The farmer and his wife picked the plump looking chicken for their meal instead of the skinny one.

Word: Plunder
Meaning:  to take forcefully usually during a time of disorder
Example: During the protest riots; angry citizens began to plunder goods from closed stores.

Word: Plunge
Meaning: to fall
Example: Off the diving board; Emily decided to plunge into the deep end of the pool for a quick swim.

Word: Plural
Meaning: a category in grammar that refers to more than one
Example: According to the grammar book; the plural of the word mouse is mice.

Word: Pluralism
Meaning: where two or more sources of power exist
Example: Pluralism is a system in which two or more states; groups; or principles coexist together.

Word: Pluralistic
Meaning: related to a system in which multiple things coexist together
Example: The solar system is pluralistic in nature; having multiple celestial bodies operating within it.

Word: Plurality
Meaning: a great amount or number
Example: When a plurality of people rushed into the store; the cashiers were overwhelmed.

Word: Plus
Meaning: additional
Example: The first graders are learning single digit addition like three plus five equals eight.

Word: Plush
Meaning: anything that is soft; comfortable; or luxurious
Example: Taking a seat in the hotel lobby’s plush armchair; the tired traveler knew it would be impossible to stay awake much longer.

Word: Plutocracy
Meaning: a political system governed by the wealthy
Example: Because it is not operated by the wealthiest people; our political system is not a plutocracy.

Word: Pluvial
Meaning: relating to rainfall
Example: The city; which was previously in a drought; is now more pluvial thanks to the constant rainfall.

Word: Ply
Meaning: reinforced with fabric; yarn; or rope
Example: Because of the shredding strings in our blanket; I could tell the ply would soon unravel.

Word: Plymouth
Meaning: a town in Massachusetts founded by Pilgrims in the early 1600s
Example: Plymouth is a town in Massachusetts; United States named after Plymouth; England.

Word: Pneumatic
Meaning: applying air pressure to labor or move
Example: I wear a pneumatic boot that uses air to cushion my injuries.

Word: Pneumonia
Meaning: illness of the lungs
Example: The woman’s diagnosis of pneumonia explained why she could not breathe easily.

Word: Poach
Meaning: to cook by simmering in a small quantity of liquid
Example: Mom chose to poach the egg in a small amount of water instead of frying it in bacon grease.

Word: Poaching
Meaning: the illegal capturing or hunting of animals
Example: Because of poaching; the hunted African Rhino is now at risk of being extinct from the earth.

Word: Pocket
Meaning: a small pouch sewn in someone’s clothing
Example: A few hours after the little boy put the candy bar in his pocket; a melted chocolate stain could be seen on the front of his pants.

Word: Pococurante
Meaning: not feeling concerned
Example: Due to her pococurante attitude toward the homeless; the woman simply walked by the starving children on the streets.

Word: Pod
Meaning: a little cluster of animals
Example: While touring the zoo; the children observed a pod of pelicans settled close to each other.

Word: Podiatrist
Meaning: a foot doctor
Example: The sandals model consulted a podiatrist to get the wart removed quickly before her next modeling job.

Word: Poet
Meaning: a person who writes poems
Example: Edgar Allen Poe gained notoriety from being a poet and short story writer using scary elements.

Word: Poetic
Meaning: Related to or used in poetry (a rhythmic style of writing)
Example: The song’s rhyming lyrics had a poetic style and feel to them.

Word: Poetic
Meaning: relating to poetry
Example: Taking poetry classes in college will open up the students mind to eventually write poetic songs; a passion for many.

Word: Poetry
Meaning: a literary work that uses style and rhythm to express feelings
Example: Dr. Seuss’s books are some of the best current examples of rhyming poetry.

Word: Poetry
Meaning: the class of literature comprising poems
Example: Darlene’s young daughter has a flair when it comes to writing poetry and maybe one day will write children books.

Word: Pogrom
Meaning: massacre; mass murder
Example: The holocaust was a mass pogrom of Jews and other minorities.

Word: Poignant
Meaning: something that touches your emotions deeply
Example: Because the poignant movie reminded me of my painful childhood; it made me cry.

Word: Point blank
Meaning: the near distance to a goal that it is most likely not going to be missed
Example: Soldiers were precisely trained to fight to the bitter end if they encountered the enemy at point blank range.

Word: Point of view
Meaning: one’s opinion or belief
Example: Hearing about the crime from the victim’s point-of-view helped the jury enter a guilty plea.

Word: Point
Meaning: a spiky and tight edge
Example: Chef Henry used the point of a knife to tear a small hole in the plastic bag so that he could get inside it.

Word: Pointless
Meaning: to have no reason for something
Example: When the elderly couple was murdered; many people felt that the crime was pointless because the couple would help anyone.

Word: Poised
Meaning: having self-confidence and self-assurance
Example: Poised and confident; the valedictorian delivered a commencement speech that was just as entertaining as it was inspiring.

Word: Poison
Meaning: a dangerous and deadly substance
Example: Chocolate is a poison to dogs because it will cause them to get really sick and possibly die.

Word: Poisonous
Meaning: pertaining to a dangerous and deadly substance
Example: Every camper was warned to stay inside their cabins since a poisonous snake was seen crawling around nearby.

Word: Poke
Meaning: to nudge sharply
Example: When the man began to doze off during the minister’s Sunday sermon; his wife decided to poke him in the ribs to wake him up.

Word: Polar
Meaning: pertaining to the top and bottom areas of the Earth
Example: As the white polar bear foraged for food in the snowy woods; it was always difficult for any animal to survive at the North Pole.

Word: Polarity
Meaning: the state of having two opposite or contradictory attributes; tendencies; opinions or ideas
Example: The marked polarity of Jason and Kevin’s political positions makes it impossible for them to come to terms on any single issue.

Word: Polarization
Meaning: the act of separating or making people split into two groups with opposite opinions or positions
Example: Division and polarization of member’s beliefs occurred when the group discussed hot-topic issues.

Word: Polder
Meaning: a piece of low lying land that was once covered by water; but has been reclaimed and protected from further submersion with dikes
Example: A polder is a piece of land that used to be covered by water; but was converted back to land by human hands.

Word: Pole
Meaning: a long round piece of wood; plastic or metal
Example: Due to the strong winds today; a tree hit a power pole and knocked it down across the road.

Word: Polemic
Meaning: a written or verbal attack on an individual or thing
Example: The political candidate posted a polemic on his blog that mocked his rival’s lack of community service.

Word: Police
Meaning: civil government forces tasked with detecting and preventing crime and maintaining public order
Example: The police are often called on to investigate disturbances in residential neighborhoods.

Word: Policy
Meaning: a rule or guideline
Example: Our school policy states that students can only bring their lunch from home if they have a doctor’s excuse.

Word: Polio
Meaning: an infectious viral disease that can cause paralysis by targeting the nervous system
Example: Polio was once a dangerous rampant disease; but it has since been cured and is a significantly reduced threat.

Word: Polis
Meaning: a city state in ancient Greece
Example: Athens was the most famous polis in Greece and is known as the birthplace of democratic government.

Word: Polite
Meaning: behavior that is respectful of other people
Example: If you want people to like you; you should probably be polite to them.

Word: Politeness
Meaning: behavior that takes other people’s thoughts and feelings into account and respects them
Example: A person’s first impression of you is often dependent on your politeness.

Word: Political Machine
Meaning: a political organization with a lead figure that receives the support of businesses and citizens during a campaign
Example: The campaign group and all of its supporters for a President during election is considered a single political engine.

Word: Political Party
Meaning: a group of politicians that have joined together because they adhere to the same ideals and beliefs
Example: The Democrats are a political party in the United States government system; though they have tough opposition in the form of the Republican Party.

Word: Political
Meaning: relating to the government or public affairs
Example: The head of the government in any country holds a political position regardless of how much power they wield or if they are the only ones in control.

Word: Political
Meaning: government related
Example: The political ads urged voters to cast their ballots for the Republican candidate.

Word: Politician
Meaning: an individual with a professional career in politics
Example: The President of the United States is a politician.

Word: Politics
Meaning: activities and policies related to the governance or running of a country
Example: Taking on a career in politics; the young man decided to follow his father’s presidential footsteps into the White House.

Word: Polity
Meaning: a politically organized unit; something that has a government
Example: Our school wanted to organize a polity run by the student body.

Word: Poll
Meaning: a survey of people’s opinions or choices regarding a certain subject.
Example: The United States uses a poll to determine which politicians their citizens vote for.

Word: Pollen
Meaning: a typically yellow dust like substance emitted from male flowers that carries the gamete necessary to fertilize female seeds
Example: You can often see the yellow tint of pollen floating through the air in spring.

Word: Pollination
Meaning: pollen movement from one part of the flower to another part
Example: In order for a plant or flower to produce seeds; pollination must occur between two flowers.

Word: Pollutant
Meaning: something that infects or contaminates the air; the ground or bodies of water
Example: Once the EPA realized that the factory was the main pollutant of the river’s water; they were heavily fined.

Word: Pollute
Meaning: unclean or impure water; air or area
Example: Factories are one of the known culprits that pollute the air through fossil fuel emissions.

Word: Pollution
Meaning: substances that are harmful and toxic to the natural environment
Example: Carcinogens are a form of pollution that harm Earth’s atmosphere.

Word: Pollyanna
Meaning: a cheerful person who naively tries to find the good in everything
Example: A naïve Pollyanna; Little Red Riding Hood skipped through the woods blissfully unaware of the danger.

Word: Pollyannaish
Meaning: describes a cheerful person who naively tries to find the good in everything
Example: Wishful thinking and Pollyannaish daydreaming left the trusting girl constantly disappointed.

Word: Poltergeist
Meaning: an unseen ghost which makes noises and causes disruption; especially by causing physical objects to move or fly about
Example: Fearing the poltergeist would keep her up all night with his howling and scary noises; the girl wore earplugs to bed.

Word: Poltroon
Meaning: one who acts in a cowardly manner
Example: The poltroon was the coward who sent an anonymous hate letter to the president.

Word: Polychromatic
Meaning: having many colors
Example: Using my array of chalks; I created a polychromatic artwork on the sidewalk for everyone to enjoy.

Word: Polygamy
Meaning: a way of life in which a person; usually a male; has more than one significant other or spouse
Example: Having more than one spouse is an act of polygamy.

Word: Polyglot 
Meaning: an individual who is capable of using and understanding numerous languages
Example: Because my sister is a polyglot; she was hired as a language translator for the United Nations.

Word: Polygon
Meaning: a plane shape with at least three straight sides and angles
Example: Stop signs are a polygon shape that always have eight sides.

Word: Polygraph
Meaning: a device used to determine when someone is lying or telling the truth based on their body’s reactions
Example: When the FBI agent wanted to know if his daughter’s new boyfriend had ever committed a crime; he hooked him up to the machine to conduct a polygraph analyzing the boy’s trembling answers.

Word: Polymath
Meaning: a person who knows a lot about many different subjects
Example: A history polymath; the professor; knows everything there is to know about world wars and dynasties.

Word: Polymer
Meaning: a material comprised of tiny molecules which are connected together
Example: The scientist will combine molecules to create a synthetic polymer.

Word: Polyp
Meaning: a cluster of benign cells that forms a small bundle and extends from organs; tissues; etc.; on living organisms
Example: When the young singer found out she had polyps on her vocal cords; she knew she would have to get surgery and her hopes of going on tour were obliterated.

Word: Polyphonic
Meaning: describes a sound that contains two or more voices or notes sounding at time
Example: The polyphonic song was performed by two of the best voices in the world-renowned choir.

Word: Polysemy
Meaning: the condition of a word or symbol having more than one meaning or connotation
Example: Polysemy word patterns can be confusing since the words are spelled the same but have different meanings.

Word: Polysyllabic
Meaning: describes a word that has more than one syllable
Example: Polysyllabic words containing more than one syllable are usually more difficult for young readers to pronounce.

Word: Polytheism 
Meaning: the belief there are many deities or gods
Example: Many ancient civilizations believed in polytheism and worshipped numerous gods.

Word: Polythene
Meaning: a type of plastic made into thin sheets or bags and used to keep food fresh or to keep things dry
Example: Perforated polythene was used to create plastic coverings to keep runners dry during rainy races.

Word: Pommel
Meaning: the rounded end on the hilt of a sword or dagger
Example: If your sword breaks; you could always hit the enemy with the pommel of your sword.

Word: Pommel
Meaning: the rounded knob on a horse's saddle that a rider grips with one hand
Example: Holding on to the saddle’s pommel; the rider tried desperately to keep himself from falling off of the bucking horse.

Word: Pomp
Meaning: magnificent display with impressive decorations; music; clothing; etc.
Example: The prom committee focused on blowing everyone away with pomp.

Word: Pompadour
Meaning: a hairstyle in which the hair is combed into a high mound or roll at the front of the head
Example: The actor’s 1960’s ensemble wasn’t complete without a dirty white t-shirt; a pompadour hairstyle and a cigarette.

Word: Pomposity
Meaning: arrogance; self-importance
Example: Lacking the pomposity of the previous queen’s; her majesty was humble and not arrogant.

Word: Pompous
Meaning: having or exhibiting self-importance
Example: The millionaire was a pompous man who believed he should never wait in line for anything.

Word: Pond
Meaning: a small body of water that is usually shallow
Example: Every Sunday without fail; the boy and his father would go fishing in the pond located behind their house.

Word: Ponder
Meaning: to think about something seriously
Example: Because my father debates every decision; he will ponder before deciding if I can take part in my friend’s mixed gender sleepover.

Word: Ponderable
Meaning: something that is important enough to be contemplated
Example: Many news reporters were covering the ponderable news stories that the country’s citizens would deem vital to their lives.

Word: Ponderous
Meaning: very boring or dull
Example: The students grew silent when they realized they would have to sit through a ponderous three-hour lecture.

Word: Pontificate
Meaning: to speak in an arrogant tone; particularly for a long period
Example: If you dare to question the professor; he will give you an evil look and then proceed to pontificate on a totally different subject.

Word: Pool
Meaning: a large container of water used for recreational or athletic purposes
Example: The mansion had a kidney-shaped pool in the backyard as well as a hot tub in the fenced-in area.

Word: Poor
Meaning: to be deprived of food; money or goods
Example: Poor children could be seen on the streets of India begging tourists for anything they could get.

Word: Pop
Meaning: to burst quickly with a little sound
Example: When the man would pop the cork off the champagne bottle; everyone at the party looked over at him.

Word: Pope
Meaning: The highest official in the Catholic Church
Example: On Easter; the pope conducted several masses for the Catholic people in the area.

Word: Popinjay
Meaning: a conceited person who focuses on their appearance
Example: After looking in the mirror for an hour; the popinjay wanted everyone to admire her beauty just like she did.

Word: Poppet
Meaning: a figure that symbolizes an individual and is used to cast spells on that particular person
Example: The witch doctor constructed a poppet of her target and used it to make the person ill.

Word: Populace 
Meaning: the ordinary people of a country
Example: The populace became angry when the government failed to lower taxes.

Word: Popular
Meaning: to be liked or admired by many people
Example: I can tell John is popular because everyone loves him.

Word: Popularity
Meaning: having the admiration and acceptance of others
Example: Over time the popularity of tattoos has become apparent due to the many pictures inked on people’s skin.

Word: Populate
Meaning: to occupy or fill a place with people
Example: The rabbits were able to populate the area very quickly by having kittens back to back.

Word: Population Density
Meaning: the number of people living within one square mile or kilometer
Example: Because he doesn’t know how to defend himself; the wimpy teenager decided to take a few boxing classes.

Word: Population
Meaning: the number of living beings in one area of any particular group or faction
Example: The population of China is over one billion people.

Word: Populism
Meaning: support for the rights and powers of ordinary people
Example: Promoting populism meant that the candidate played on the naïve notions of the poor working class.

Word: Populous
Meaning: highly populated
Example: The populous city contained residents of every ethnicity.

Word: Porcelain
Meaning: a hard rock-like clay that is fired and then sealed
Example: When my young daughter reached for the porcelain doll off the store’s shelf; she accidentally broke it when it fell on the ground.

Word: Porcine
Meaning: relating to or looking like pigs
Example: The porcine children continued to fight over the leftover soup like a trough of slop.

Word: Pore
Meaning: to scan or examine intently
Example: After I was given the manuscript for my first title role in the play; I began to pore over the script for hours.

Word: Pork barrel
Meaning: the use of government funds to appease voters and win votes
Example: Pork and barrel politics make it seem impossible to win an election without buying votes.

Word: Porous
Meaning: easy to move through because of the presence of small gaps
Example: Because the castle had porous security; the assassin found it quite simple to sneak inside and murder the king.

Word: Porridge
Meaning: a meal; typically cereal; that is boiled in water or milk
Example: Goldilocks ate all of the bear’s porridge; but she probably wished she hadn’t since it was just cereal and hot water.

Word: Porringer
Meaning: a small bowl; typically with a handle; used for soup; stew; or similar dishes
Example: This evening; we will have a porringer of tomato soup and grilled cheese sandwiches.

Word: Port
Meaning: a harbor where boats dock
Example: That is a popular port where merchandise can enter or leave.

Word: Portable
Meaning: able to be carried or easily moved
Example: We always pack a portable disposable grill before heading out on a trip because it’s the easiest way to cook on the road.

Word: Portage
Meaning: an act of carrying
Example: The portage across the canal required a hefty fee.

Word: Portcullis
Meaning: a sturdy sliding gateway door that moves vertically to open and close
Example: The pointy portcullis opened from the top to permit the passage of sightseeing tourists.

Word: Portend
Meaning: to indicate or give sign of a future occurrence
Example: By hovering nearby; the dark clouds portend a storm in our area.

Word: Portent
Meaning: a signal something is about to occur
Example: The thunder was a portent of an approaching storm.

Word: Portentous
Meaning: foreboding; ominous; or threatening
Example: Because Jack generally expects the worst; his language is normally portentous and filled with warnings.

Word: Porter
Meaning: a person employed to carry luggage
Example: A bellhop is considered a porter; because they carry luggage.

Word: Portfolio
Meaning: a collection of work
Example: The photographer has an impressive portfolio that holds an assortment of images he has taken in his career.

Word: Portion
Meaning: a part of a whole
Example: Since Teresa is trying to eat healthy; she will sample a very small portion of my home made brownies.

Word: Portly
Meaning: somewhat overweight
Example: Because the portly woman was unhappy with her weight; she joined a weight loss program.

Word: Portmanteau
Meaning: a large trunk or suitcase; typically made of stiff leather and opening into two equal parts
Example: She carried her possessions with her in an old portmanteau.

Word: Portrait
Meaning: a portrait is a painting; drawing; or photograph of a person
Example: When he had his portrait drawn; he couldn’t move for a few hours while the artist drew an image of him.

Word: Portray
Meaning: to depict an individual; situation; or specific event
Example: The media is going to portray the killer as a victim of society’s avoidance of mental health issues.

Word: Pose
Meaning: to present a question or raise a topic for discussion
Example: I would like to pose a question about testing nuclear weapons and the sanctions associated with it.

Word: Poseur
Meaning: a pretender
Example: The poseur became so good at pretending to be a scientist that he no longer needed a lab coat.

Word: Posh
Meaning: sophisticated and luxurious
Example: Her posh bag was expensive; but the style and fabric made the sophisticated purse worth it.

Word: Posit
Meaning: to offer as a suggestion
Example: Since no other venue is available; I will posit my condominium as a place for the company holiday party.

Word: Position
Meaning: the way in which someone or something is placed or arranged
Example: At Little League today; my son Jason was chosen to play the third base position.

Word: Positive
Meaning: absolutely certain of something
Example: Jeff was positive he scored an A on his test because he studied the material for eight hours.

Word: Posse
Meaning: a group of people who have a common characteristic or purpose
Example: My friend has a posse that he likes to hang out with because they are all so similar.

Word: Possess
Meaning: to have or own something
Example: Most families in America possess at least one car; but many have two.

Word: Possessive
Meaning: showing domination; control or influence over someone or something
Example: After being on a few dates with Bruce; Amy felt he was becoming jealous and possessive of her.

Word: Possibility
Meaning: something that has the potential to occur or is likely to happen
Example: There is a possibility that school will be cancelled if it snows hard enough.

Word: Possible
Meaning: able to be done or achieved
Example: It is possible for you to do a backflip if you practice long enough.

Word: Possibly
Meaning: indicative of doubt or uncertainty regarding a situation
Example: We could possibly be the only sentient race in the universe; but there’s no way to know for sure.

Word: Post-haste
Meaning: with a great deal of speed
Example: We must leave post-haste if we don’t want to miss the beginning of the film.

Word: Postbellum
Meaning: occurring or existing after a war
Example: While the term ‘postbellum’ can refer to a period of time after any war; it is usually used to refer to the events that occurred after the American Civil War.

Word: Postdate
Meaning: to assign a date to something later than was originally intended
Example: We had to postdate the party because a thunderstorm stopped the guests from coming on the original day.

Word: Posterior
Meaning: close to or at the rear of something
Example: In anatomy class; students learned the term “posterior” refers to the back of a body.

Word: Posterity
Meaning: all future generations
Example: We bury time capsules for ourselves and for posterity.

Word: Postgraduate
Meaning: referring to study undertaken after completing a first degree
Example: Any degree you study for after completing your first degree can be considered postgraduate; and it always looks good on your resume.

Word: Posthumous
Meaning: taking place after one's death
Example: The author received several impressive awards for her body of work; unfortunately; they were all posthumous.

Word: Postmark
Meaning: an official stamp that gives the time; place; and date of a package’s posting
Example: A postmark on a package will tell you where it was shipped from.

Word: Postmeridian
Meaning: of or pertaining to the afternoon
Example: Taking a postmeridian nap caused the boy to be awake all night long.

Word: Postmortem
Meaning: associated with happening after death
Example: The autopsy is performed on the victim postmortem.

Word: Postmortem
Meaning: something that happens after death
Example: When my great aunt passed away there was a postmortem examination to determine the actual cause of her death and to rule out foul play.

Word: Postnatal
Meaning: related to the period of time following childbirth
Example: A baby needs a lot of postnatal care to ensure that it is healthy before it can leave the hospital.

Word: Postoperative
Meaning: related to the period of time following a medical operation or procedure
Example: Because the procedure was so long and tedious; the surgeon needed some postoperative relaxation to wind down.

Word: Postpartum
Meaning: after childbirth
Example: Most women experience postpartum joy when they get to hold their baby for the first time.

Word: Postpone
Meaning: decide to have something occur at a later date than originally intended
Example: I decided to postpone writing my essay until tomorrow because I was too tired to do it today.

Word: Postpone
Meaning: to reschedule for a later time
Example: Unfortunately Jamie had to postpone his wedding because of a severe illness.

Word: Postponement
Meaning: the action of delaying or putting off something until later
Example: The heavy snow last night resulted in a postponement for school.

Word: Postscript
Meaning: an extra remark or at the end of a letter or email signified by the initials P.S.
Example: Many people use a postscript in a letter when they forgot to write something in the body of the letter.

Word: Postulate
Meaning: to suggest something (such as an idea or theory) especially in order to start a discussion
Example: In an attempt to create controversy; some experts postulate alternatives to historical beliefs that have been accepted for years.

Word: Posture
Meaning: the position that someone holds their body in; generally while standing or sitting
Example: Mary’s bad posture when sitting at her school desk makes her back hurt later during the day.

Word: Postwar
Meaning: pertaining to the period after a war
Example: Postwar reconstruction of Germany was initially completed by rubble women who were used to clean-up debris.

Word: Potable
Meaning: good for drinking without fear of poisoning or disease; drinkable
Example: There was a lack of potable water because of the drought.

Word: Potation
Meaning: the act of drinking a beverage; usually alcohol
Example: As a recovering alcoholic; Jim decided to refrain from potation.

Word: Potency
Meaning: strength; effectiveness; or power
Example: Because of its high potency; the herb can make people act in strange ways.

Word: Potent
Meaning: very strong in a chemical or medicinal way
Example: The potent poison killed him within seconds.

Word: Potentate
Meaning: someone with unlimited power; usually a leader of a country or territory
Example: Our president cannot become a potentate because he has to share his power with two other branches of government.

Word: Potential
Meaning: likely to happen or become
Example: Because the building has a gas leak that poses a potential risk to residents; it is being evacuated.

Word: Potentially
Meaning: with a possibility to occur or become reality in the future
Example: Because he did not study for the final test; Mark could potentially fail the class.

Word: Potentiate
Meaning: to increase the power or effect of something; especially medicine
Example: The two medicines prescribed by the doctor tend to potentiate each other and are stronger together than if taken separately.

Word: Potently
Meaning: having great influence or effect over or on something
Example: The poison of a Taipan snake is so potently lethal that it could kill twelve people.

Word: Pother
Meaning: a disturbance or commotion
Example: The police are often called to investigate a pother in rural neighborhoods.

Word: Potholes
Meaning: deep holes in a roads surface that are formed by weather or traffic
Example: Deep; rounded potholes filled the gravel road; making it hard for vehicles to drive on the route.

Word: Potion
Meaning: a combination of liquid ingredients that has medicinal or magical powers
Example: The witch made a magical potion; but the mixture didn’t to make her young again like she hoped it would.

Word: Potluck
Meaning: a party or event in which every participant brings a different dish for the guests
Example: A potluck sometimes has many of the same dish because the guests don’t know what the others are going to bring.

Word: Potpourri 
Meaning: a collection of various things
Example: New York City is a potpourri of various nationalities and religions.

Word: Pouch
Meaning: a typically flexible small bag used for storage of equally small objects
Example: Ricky likes to keep his marbles in a small pouch so he doesn’t lose them.

Word: Poultice
Meaning: a soft; heated and medicated substance; that is spread on cloth over the skin to treat an aching; inflamed; or painful part of the body
Example: Applying a thick layer of poultice to the burn stopped it from welting.

Word: Poultry
Meaning: domestic birds kept by humans for the purpose of eating
Example: The most common poultry bird is the chicken.

Word: Pounce
Meaning: a sudden leap or bound a predator uses to catch its prey
Example: When a wildebeest is unaware of its surroundings; a lion will pounce to catch it off guard.

Word: Pound
Meaning: to hit or strike something with heavy force
Example: Boxers pound away at each other as they try to knock out their opponent.

Word: Pout
Meaning: to push one’s lips out to show irritation or annoyance
Example: The toddler continued to pout and poke out her lips when her mother wouldn’t give her candy.

Word: Pout
Meaning: to thrust out ones lips expressing displeasure
Example: Our eight year old son John will often pout when we tell him to do his homework before playing outside.

Word: Poverty
Meaning: the state of having little money or possessions
Example: Living in severe poverty; the homeless man ate from garbage cans instead of the local café.

Word: Power of attorney
Meaning: a legal document one can use to appoint someone to make decisions on their behalf
Example: The elderly woman gave her daughter power of attorney; so she could handle her financial affairs.

Word: Power
Meaning: to supply a device with energy
Example: In order to power an electronic device; you must plug it into a source of electrical energy for it to run.

Word: Powerful
Meaning: to be influential and dominant
Example: Having a powerful dictator in office led many laws to be changed allowing very little input from the country’s citizens.

Word: Powerless
Meaning: without power; weak; unable to do something
Example: People are feeling powerless to all of the telephone scams occurring having no recourse except to avoid answering the phone.

Word: Practicable
Meaning: that can be put into practice; feasible
Example: The Federal investigators said after the train crash; “A detailed report will be made to the public as soon as practicable.”

Word: Practical
Meaning: sensible
Example: The practical solution is the easiest one that will fix the problem.

Word: Practice
Meaning: to repeatedly carry out a practice or skill so that one can improve
Example: The ballerina needs to practice all week so she will be ready for her dance recital.

Word: Pragmatic
Meaning: concentrating on practical results and facts instead of speculation and opinion
Example: The scientist had a pragmatic approach to dealing with the water crisis.

Word: Prairie
Meaning: an extensive area of relatively flat grassland
Example: Tall grasses in the prairie can grow six to eight feet tall.

Word: Praise
Meaning: to express approval; love; or admiration for something
Example: The teacher began to praise the student for his excellent work and raved about his writing.

Word: Prance
Meaning: to strut around in a lively way to impress others
Example: It’s fun and interesting to watch a sixty year old rock star prance around the stage during a concert.

Word: Prate
Meaning: talking for a long time without purpose
Example: Even when the intoxicated woman was placed in the police car; she continued to prate until one of the officers yelled for her to be silent.

Word: Pratfall
Meaning: a humiliating mistake
Example: After dropping all of the dishes; the embarrassed waitress learned that some teens had recorded the embarrassing pratfall.

Word: Prattle
Meaning: talking for a long period of time about insignificant things
Example: At every party; there is always one lady who has to prattle on about her cute kids.

Word: Praxis
Meaning: traditional conduct or practices
Example: The praxis of our religious community sets the marriage age for young women.

Word: Preamble
Meaning: an opening announcement used to describe what is about to be read or said
Example: The preamble of the international health organization summarizes the group’s purpose.

Word: Prearrange
Meaning: to agree or arrange something beforehand
Example: Before a major hurricane arrives; everyone should prearrange safer places for their pets and livestock.

Word: Precarious
Meaning: unstable; dangerous or difficult
Example: Running around with a knife is very precarious.

Word: Precaution
Meaning: a measure taken in advance to protect against danger or trouble
Example: Stocking up on food is one precaution you should take in case of emergency.

Word: Precede
Meaning: to occur before something else
Example: Sometimes a tingling sensation in the arm will precede a heart attack.

Word: Precedent
Meaning: an earlier event or action that is regarded as an example
Example: The judges had no precedent to review before making their decision on the controversial case.

Word: Precept
Meaning: a rule that sets the pattern for one’s behavior
Example: The school’s honesty precept dictates we only turn in our own work.

Word: Precinct
Meaning: an area of town reserved for police or voting purposes
Example: The voter was not sure which precinct he should report to on Election Day.

Word: Precious
Meaning: valuable or important; typically for sentimental reasons
Example: Nothing is more precious to a mother than her children; and she will always choose to protect them over anything else.

Word: Precipice
Meaning: a point where danger; trouble; or difficulty begins
Example: Sue Ellen is now on the precipice of bankruptcy and might have to sell the family home.

Word: Precipitate
Meaning: to bring about especially abruptly
Example: The rising level of unemployment is going to precipitate a huge crowd at the welfare office.

Word: Precipitation
Meaning: water that falls to the earth; especially in the form of rain or snow
Example: Precipitation levels in the desert are very low since it doesn’t rain much there.

Word: Precipitous
Meaning: done rapidly without thinking
Example: Because Richard never thinks about the consequences of his precipitous actions; he often ends up in jail.

Word: Precise
Meaning: exact and correct
Example: The student tried to come up with the precise answer to the problem but was a few answers off.

Word: Precisely 
Meaning: specifically; in exact terms
Example: Although I told my husband to arrive at the school precisely at three o’clock; he still managed to show up late for dismissal.

Word: Precision
Meaning: the quality of accuracy or exactness
Example: A sniper must have extreme precision while on a mission; since he must often hit a very small target from very far away.

Word: Preclude
Meaning: to prevent it from happening
Example: Using home remedies should never preclude one from seeking help from medical personnel.

Word: Precocious
Meaning: having mature qualities at an unusually early age
Example: My precocious little girl thinks she knows everything there is to know about life.

Word: Precognition
Meaning: prior knowledge of an event before it happens
Example: Precognition and clairvoyance helped the psychic tell the future.

Word: Preconceived 
Meaning: an idea or opinion that is formed before having the information; evidence; or experience to back up its truthfulness
Example: The experiment was only successful because the scientist did not let his preconceived notions affect the results.

Word: Precursor
Meaning: something that happens before something else
Example: My itching is the precursor of the severe allergic reaction I will soon experience.

Word: Predate
Meaning: to designate a date earlier than the actual one
Example: In a statement released today; Brown says; “While these issues of officers drinking while on duty predates my arrival of Sheriff in 2015; it has become my responsibility to handle this situation swiftly.”

Word: Predation
Meaning: the preying of one animal on others
Example: The lions were preparing for predation near the waterhole.

Word: Predator
Meaning: an organism that preys on other creatures
Example: A child predator recently tried to lure my daughter away from the park.

Word: Predatory
Meaning: associated with stealing or taking advantage of other people for private gain
Example: The predatory lender always assigns extremely high interest rates to his loans.

Word: Predawn
Meaning: happening before the sun comes up (dawn)
Example: The joggers always take a predawn run so that they can avoid the heat of the morning sun.

Word: Predecessor 
Meaning: an individual who holds a position before another person
Example: The iPhone 5s was the predecessor of the iPhone 6.

Word: Predestination
Meaning: the doctrine that everything has been foreordained by a God or by fate
Example: The priest believed in predestination and never worried about things that were to come.

Word: Predicament
Meaning: difficult; unpleasant; or embarrassing situation
Example: Because I do not want to end up in a financial predicament; I pay my bills regularly.

Word: Predicated
Meaning: founded upon a belief or argument
Example: My decision to move to Paris was predicated on the belief I had a job opportunity waiting for me.

Word: Predict
Meaning: to foretell what will happen next or in the future
Example: The psychic said she could predict my future and claimed I would be a great actress one day.

Word: Predictability
Meaning: the degree to which something can be guessed or forecasted
Example: Because of his predictability; Heath’s wife knew that she could find him fishing every Saturday afternoon no matter what.

Word: Prediction
Meaning: a forecast of what will most likely take place in the future
Example: A prediction could be made regarding the outcome of a random car accident on the dangerous road based on the number of deaths that occur on that road every year.

Word: Predilection
Meaning: a preference for something; a strong liking
Example: Gregory goes out to watch birds daily so I assume he has a predilection for the hobby.

Word: Predisposed
Meaning: to be inclined to act in a certain way or have a certain condition
Example: Because of my passion for athletics; I am predisposed to playing a variety of sports.

Word: Predisposition
Meaning: the circumstance of being vulnerable to a particular thing
Example: Because my mother suffered from depression; I have a genetic predisposition to the condition.

Word: Predominance
Meaning: the state of being greater in frequency; number; strength; or authority than something or someone else
Example: You will find a predominance of dog lovers at the park; but there are few cat lovers visit them as well.

Word: Predominant
Meaning: being the main thing or issue
Example: Flying continues to be the predominant means of travel despite increased airfares.

Word: Predominate 
Meaning: to be the main component of something
Example: Asian Americans tend to predominate the nail services industry in the United States.

Word: Preeminent
Meaning: better than others
Example: Dr. Michaels is always winning awards because he is the preeminent medical researcher in the country.

Word: Preempt
Meaning: to take steps to prevent something from happening
Example: The company decided to meet with its former employee as a way to preempt a lawsuit.

Word: Preemptive
Meaning: a step taken to prevent an undesirable action
Example: Spraying around the property for termites is a preemptive move a wise homeowner should make.

Word: Preen
Meaning: to groom or spruce up
Example: His pet bird would preen its feathers to keep it clean.

Word: Preface
Meaning: the opening or introduction of a presentation or book
Example: During his preface; the host thanked everyone who participated in the competition.

Word: Prefect 
Meaning: an elected authority figure that typically oversees order and discipline
Example: In Harry Potter; Percy Weasley was prefect for Gryffindor and gave detention to everyone who was out of bed after hours.

Word: Preferable
Meaning: more suitable than other options
Example: Since nurses are constantly on their feet; they find flat shoes preferable to heels.

Word: Preference
Meaning: to like something much more than anything similar
Example: Getting her eyebrows threaded instead of waxed was a personal preference.

Word: Preferential
Meaning: receiving better treatment
Example: Many argue that celebrities receive preferential treatment in jail because they have spacious cells and better food than other prisoners.

Word: Preferred
Meaning: liked or favored over other choices
Example: The officer preferred working the day shift over patrolling at night.

Word: Prefix
Meaning: a partial word or number affixed to the beginning of a word or number to either complete the word or alter the meaning
Example: Often the prefix “un” is used to transform a word into its opposite meaning; like well and unwell.

Word: Pregnancy
Meaning: the period of time in which a fetus is being formed inside the mother’s womb
Example: During her pregnancy; the expectant mother picked out baby names and decorated a nursery.

Word: Pregnant
Meaning: carrying a child inside your body
Example: The pregnant mother is so excited to give birth to her firstborn son.

Word: Pregnant
Meaning: a female carrying a developing baby inside body
Example: Dr. Oliver tells all of her pregnant patients not to smoke; always eat healthy and get plenty of rest.

Word: Prehensile
Meaning: able to take hold of and clasp objects
Example: The monkey’s prehensile tail allowed him to spy on his enemies while dangling from a tree.

Word: Prehistoric 
Meaning: relating to the time before history was written down
Example: The prehistoric period ended in Egypt when the Egyptian Narmer Palette was written in 3500 B.C.

Word: Prejudge
Meaning: to form a judgement beforehand without sufficient evidence
Example: I will not prejudge whether or not your answer is correct without first checking it up in the book.

Word: Prejudice
Meaning: hatred directed at a particular culture or group or at a specific individual
Example: Jane’s prejudice led her to dislike Mary simply because of the color of her skin.

Word: Prejudiced
Meaning: having a negative opinion about someone or a situation not based on reason or experience
Example: Because he is prejudiced; the man dislikes Hispanic people before he even gets to know them.

Word: Prejudicial
Meaning: something that can cause a negative result; harm; or prevent success of a project or activity
Example: Poor reviews of a product on major sites are prejudicial to the overall sale of the item.

Word: Preliminary
Meaning: in preparation for the main matter
Example: Though he passed the preliminary exam; further testing proved he was not ready to begin.

Word: Prelude
Meaning: that which precedes another event
Example: Movie trailers are often used as a prelude to feature films.

Word: Premature
Meaning: early; untimely
Example: My husband thinks it is premature to call the cops; but I know for a fact that my ring was stolen.

Word: Premeditated
Meaning: planned in advance
Example: Since Mary planned her husband’s death in advance; she was charged with premeditated murder.

Word: Premier
Meaning: to be the leading or primary element of a group of something
Example: Of all the hotels in the world; this premier hotel was on the top of every hotel critic’s top ten list.

Word: Premise
Meaning: a statement that gives weight to a conclusion
Example: Since your premise cannot be confirmed; your entire theory is worthless.

Word: Premium
Meaning: an amount to be paid for an insurance policy
Example: The woman’s life insurance policy was cancelled after she forgot to pay her premium.

Word: Premonition
Meaning: an intense feeling something is about to occur; generally a negative event
Example: Before the accident; Sang mentioned he had a premonition something bad was going to happen on the road trip.

Word: Prenatal
Meaning: being or happening before birth
Example: Getting good prenatal care is the most important thing a mother can do for her unborn baby.

Word: Preoccupation
Meaning: distraction
Example: After many nights away from home; the workaholic’s preoccupation with his career began to take a toll on his marriage.

Word: Preoccupied
Meaning: to become obsessed or completely concerned with something
Example: Following the doctor informing the patient about his terminal illness; the patient’s mind was always preoccupied with the thoughts of his impending death.

Word: Preparation
Meaning: getting something ready or organized
Example: In preparation for the grand opening; the baker created several dozen special cupcakes.

Word: Preparatory
Meaning: designed to prepare for another task
Example: The preparatory school was created with the goal of getting students ready for college.

Word: Preponderance
Meaning: a larger figure or amount
Example: With such a preponderance of evidence; the jury will most likely find the defendant guilty.

Word: Preponderant
Meaning: blatantly influential and powerful
Example: The United States; Russia; and the China are preponderant military powers who have major influence over matters of diplomacy.

Word: Prepossessing
Meaning: being appealing to others
Example: The female fans went wild when the prepossessing actor walked into the theater.

Word: Preposterous
Meaning: contrary to nature; reason; or common sense
Example: His idea of selling dead bugs for big money is totally preposterous!

Word: Prerogative
Meaning: a special right; power; or privilege
Example: Since he was a senior member of the golf club; Allan had the prerogative to reject new member applications.

Word: Presage
Meaning: to give a warning something unpleasant may occur in the future
Example: If the unpopular president is reelected; his win will presage a countrywide protest.

Word: Prescience
Meaning: the capacity to know future events
Example: Because Janet was amazed by the psychic’s prescience; she visited her on a regular basis.

Word: Prescient
Meaning: having or showing knowledge of events before they take place
Example: The psychic's predictions were uncannily prescient and ended up proving true a few weeks later.

Word: Prescribe
Meaning: doctor to give someone medication or some other kind of treatment
Example: The patient couldn’t get her doctor to take her pain seriously or prescribe medication to ease it.

Word: Prescript
Meaning: a rule or regulation of conduct
Example: Because the prescript is in the Bible; followers of the faith refuse to break the law.

Word: Prescription
Meaning: an instruction written by a medical practitioner that allows a patient to be given a medicine or treatment
Example: When my daughter was sick with the flu; the doctor wrote her a prescription for special medication.

Word: Presence
Meaning: the state of being present; or of being within sight or call; or at hand
Example: Although he felt confident in his skills; his boss’s presence always left him on edge.

Word: Present-day
Meaning: of the current time period
Example: The area that was once called New Granada is present-day Columbia.

Word: Present
Meaning: here; in a particular place
Example: The student called out “present” to let his teacher know that he was in the classroom.

Word: Presentation
Meaning: a performance or demonstration usually involving factual or persuasive information
Example: Using power point; the business executive gave a presentation about workplace etiquette to his staff so that they would understand how to behave at the office.

Word: Presentiment
Meaning: the feeling something bad might occur
Example: The presentiment lingered after I saw a black cat twice in one day.

Word: Preservative
Meaning: a substance added to something else (such as food or wood) to slow down or stop it from decaying
Example: Sugar or salt is added to peanut butter as a preservative to keep it from going bad.

Word: Preserve
Meaning: to keep safe
Example: The automobile cover will preserve the car’s windows during the hailstorm.

Word: Preside
Meaning: to be in charge of something as the leader
Example: Judge Judy will preside over the case and make a final ruling on the matter.

Word: Presidency
Meaning: the position or length of time that someone serves as president of a country or organization
Example: During his presidency; the student council leader promised to lobby for better campus security and safer dormitories.

Word: Prestige
Meaning: how well something or someone is regarded
Example: The word most commonly associated with the luxury hotel chain is prestige.

Word: Prestigious
Meaning: highly regarded
Example: The prestigious doctor had a long waiting list of patients.

Word: Presumably
Meaning: by a sensible guess; probably
Example: Presumably; Heath will join his wife at the hospital for the birth of their daughter.

Word: Presume
Meaning: to suppose something to be true without proof
Example: The professor was quick to presume that the student did not do his homework since he hadn’t all year.

Word: Presumption
Meaning: a belief that something is true or false without having all of the facts
Example: Because they were fighting more often than not; the girl made a presumption that her parents were unhappily married.

Word: Presumptive
Meaning: relating to presumption; presumed without further information
Example: It is presumptive to jump to a conclusion without knowing all of the facts or aspects of the situation.

Word: Presumptuous
Meaning: making a judgment before knowing of all the facts - also means - extremely bold and forward in doing something;
Example: It was rather presumptuous of her to assume I would get her a birthday present.

Word: Presuppose
Meaning: to accept something as true without proof
Example: Before looking at evidence; the detective is usually the first to presuppose that a family member committed the crime.

Word: Presupposition 
Meaning: a background belief that is assumed beforehand
Example: The open-minded woman tried to provide new ways of thinking and prove her brother’s presupposition about other races as wrong.

Word: Pretence 
Meaning: behavior used to trick or deceive other people
Example: John’s pretence of wealth included renting a luxury sedan to convince his friends of his success.

Word: Pretend
Meaning: to speak and act as if something is happening when it’s really not
Example: The little girl likes to pretend to be a mermaid when she swims in the pool.

Word: Pretense
Meaning: a claim that is not real
Example: Under the pretense of being helpful; the sneaky insurance salesman sold the woman a policy that provided her with few benefits.

Word: Pretension
Meaning: asserting a certain quality or status
Example: To be the president of a country; Marcel is extremely down-to-earth and completely devoid of pretension.

Word: Pretentious
Meaning: acting as though more important; valuable; or special than is warranted
Example: The swindler was a pretentious man who claimed to be descended from royalty.

Word: Preternatural 
Meaning: so unusual that it does not seem natural or normal
Example: Seeing a penguin in the desert seemed very preternatural to the amazed onlookers.

Word: Preternatural
Meaning: unusual; uncommon in nature
Example: The superhero’s preternatural abilities help him perform amazing feats when people are in danger.

Word: Pretest
Meaning: a test given before instruction or evaluation
Example: Each new product must undergo a pretest to determine if it passes inspection and can be put on the shelves.

Word: Pretext
Meaning: a fake excuse or reason
Example: Under pretext of being a police officer; the gang member gained entry into the rival gang leader’s apartment.

Word: Pretty
Meaning: attractive in a dainty; graceful way 
Example: "The pretty dresses the twin girls wore on Easter Sunday had everyone talking.

Word: 
Meaning: 
Example: 

Word: "
Meaning: 
Example: 

Word: Prevail
Meaning: to beat in a difficult contest or battle
Example: Even though our troops are tired and hungry; we will prevail against the enemy!

Word: Prevalent
Meaning: very common in a particular place or among a particular group
Example: You should not assume everyone is a drug user simply because drug use is prevalent.

Word: Prevaricate
Meaning: speak or act in an evasive way
Example: In order to get his bill passed; the politician went out of his way to prevaricate about the release of the environmental study.

Word: Prevention
Meaning: the action of stopping something from happening
Example: In the name of prevention; the insurance company gives wellness information to keep its customers from getting sick.

Word: Preventive
Meaning: designed to stop something unwanted from happening
Example: Studying can be considered a preventive measure; since it is an action you take to prevent yourself from failing.

Word: Preview
Meaning: a special show or performance that allows certain people to see a movie; play; product; etc.; before the public
Example: The movie preview showed the upcoming movie to a packed audience at the theater.

Word: Preview
Meaning: an advance showing of scenes to advertise an upcoming show or movie
Example: The preview of the soon to be released Black Panther movie reveals action pack scenes leaving a promising movie.

Word: Previous
Meaning: existing or coming before something/someone else
Example: Daniel’s previous business partner stole money; making it hard for him to trust anyone in the future.

Word: Prey
Meaning: something or someone that is susceptible to attack
Example: The rapist stalked his prey for days.

Word: Price
Meaning: the amount of money expected as payment for something
Example: The price of a new video game in the United States is almost always sixty dollars; though the cost will depreciate in time.

Word: Prickly
Meaning: sharp to the touch; usually pointed
Example: Porcupines are known for their prickly skin.

Word: Pride
Meaning: being filled with happiness or joy at an accomplishment
Example: She felt a deep sense of pride whenever she worked hard and got an A on her test.

Word: Prideful
Meaning: "proud; unfriendly; and showing an ""I'm better; smarter; and bigger than other people"" attitude"
Example: Turning her nose up at the homeless lady; the prideful woman would not allow herself to believe that the two had anything in common other than their gender.

Word: Priesthood
Meaning: the office or position of being a priest
Example: Before entering into the priesthood; the clergyman made a serious decision to dedicate himself to God and the church.

Word: Prig
Meaning: a deeply religious person who holds others to a high moral standard in a self-righteous and prudish way
Example: The pompous prig silently judged all of the other church members from his pew.

Word: Priggish
Meaning: a prim and pompous person who requires everything to be precise since she strongly requires it
Example: After working for a priggish boss who was never satisfied with my work; I decided to work somewhere else who was not so demanding.

Word: Prim
Meaning: formal and proper in a stiff and prudish way
Example: My prim coworker refused to dance; but the rest of my coworkers weren’t afraid to jump right in.

Word: Prima Facie
Meaning: accepted as true and correct until proven otherwise
Example: In court; the story of the plaintiff is Prima Facie; and they are innocent until they are actually proven guilty.

Word: Primacy
Meaning: the state or condition of being important or first
Example: The primacy of our mealtimes is that everyone eats together as a family.

Word: Primal
Meaning: basic; instinctive
Example: The dog’s primal instincts allow it to hunt out prey easily.

Word: Primary source
Meaning: is an artifact; a document; diary; manuscript; autobiography; a recording; or any other source of information that was created at the time under study
Example: The student struggled to find a primary source for his research paper because nearly everything from the region had been destroyed during the war.

Word: Primary
Meaning: principal and major
Example: A primary choice in the girl’s life was to get a college education so she could make a better life for herself and her children.

Word: Primate
Meaning: a member of the most developed and intelligent group of mammals (i.e.; humans; monkeys; and apes)
Example: The biology teacher explained to the students that both monkeys and humans fall into the primate category.

Word: Prime
Meaning: superior or best
Example: If a customer wants to order the prime cut of meat; he will have to pay top dollar for that dish.

Word: Primeval 
Meaning: extremely primitive or old
Example: The archaeologist found several primeval dinosaur bones in the canyon.

Word: Primitive
Meaning: something that is not refined or advanced
Example: In the primitive village; there is no source of electricity.

Word: Primly 
Meaning: done in an extremely proper manner
Example: The wealthy exchange student sat primly in her freshly starched uniform.

Word: Primogeniture 
Meaning: the state of being the firstborn child; an exclusive right of inheritance belonging to the eldest son
Example: Although they were twins; the system of primogeniture awarded the estate to the boy who was born first.

Word: Primordial
Meaning: in the beginning; in a basic way
Example: Sometimes I feel primordial when I eat food without silverware.

Word: Primp
Meaning: to spend time improving one's appearance (often in front of a mirror)
Example: Before Sarah’s date; she stood in the mirror to primp her hair.

Word: Principal
Meaning: person in the highest position in a group or organization
Example: The prima ballerina is the principal dancer in any ballet troupe.

Word: Principle
Meaning: the root of or foundation for a belief or state of being
Example: Democracy operates on the principle that everyone should be treated equally.

Word: Prior
Meaning: occurred previously
Example: On a prior episode of the television show; the main character was arrested for her husband’s murder.

Word: Prioritize
Meaning: to place in order of greatest to least important
Example: Surgeons prioritize which patients to schedule first based on the extent of their injuries.

Word: Priority
Meaning: of most importance
Example: Although I like to go out and have a good time; working and paying bills is a priority over everything else.

Word: Priority
Meaning: of utmost importance
Example: Because spending time with his wife is a priority; George rarely works on the weekends.

Word: Priority
Meaning: of most importance.
Example: Although I like to go out and have a good time; working and paying bills is a priority over everything else.

Word: Prism
Meaning: a transparent glass or plastic object that separates white light that passes through it
Example: The science teacher showed students how the glass prism reflects colors once light passes through it.

Word: Prison
Meaning: a place of confinement for convicted criminals
Example: A man was sentenced to prison for a long time after being convicted of trying to kill his wife with an ax.

Word: Pristine 
Meaning: still pure; unchanged
Example: Because there were few tourists on the island; the beaches were still pristine and beautiful.

Word: Privacy
Meaning: one’s right to control access to his or her personal information
Example: Valuing his privacy; Quan didn’t share anything about his personal life while at work.

Word: Private
Meaning: belonging to or being used by a select group and not the public
Example: Because it is top-secret; the private information inside the folder cannot be shared with anyone.

Word: Privation
Meaning: the state of being very poor; and lacking the basic necessities of life
Example: Written records of early explorers indicate that the native people faced a great deal of hard times and privation where they had to eat insects and other unspeakable items just to stay alive.

Word: Privilege 
Meaning: an advantage or benefit given to certain individuals
Example: As a senior account executive; I now have the privilege of access to the executive lounge.

Word: Privy
Meaning: allowed to share in confidential information
Example: The psychologist is privy to his patient’s thoughts and emotions.

Word: Prize
Meaning: a thing given as a reward to the winner of a competition or race or in recognition of another outstanding achievement
Example: The 500-pound pig won first prize at the county fair.

Word: Pro bono
Meaning: a free service to the public by a lawyer
Example: When the attorney wanted to give back to his community; he started doing pro bono work for the poor clients who found themselves in trouble with the law.

Word: Pro rata
Meaning: consistently corresponding to a precise amount
Example: “Since I left the apartment in the middle of the month;” the former tenant told his former landlord; “I should only have to pay a pro rata amount due to the length of time I was there.”

Word: Pro
Meaning: a professional or expert
Example: Because her mother is pro basketball player; most people are surprised that Maria doesn’t like sports.

Word: Proactive
Meaning: acting in advance
Example: Emergency procedures are proactive measures to ensure everyone’s safety.

Word: Probability
Meaning: The likelihood or chance that something will happen
Example: There is a strong probability that another earthquake will occur along the fault.

Word: Probable
Meaning: likely; most likely
Example: It was probable that the students cheated; given their scores on the practice test.

Word: Probate
Meaning: the legal process of proving the validity of a deceased person's will to a court
Example: Without a copy of the will; there was no way to prove through probate that the nephew was the sole heir.

Word: Probe
Meaning: to inquire or investigate
Example: An independent investigator will probe the allegations of racial bias in police hiring.

Word: Probity
Meaning: the quality of a person who is completely honest
Example: The criminal knew he could not buy the judge who was known for his probity.

Word: Problematic
Meaning: challenging; difficult
Example: Finding enough volunteers to work at the shelter can be problematic since it’s not a paying job.

Word: Proboscis
Meaning: an animal's long flexible nose; or an animal's long tube-like mouth
Example: Using its proboscis to snag a branch; the elephant proceeded to eat the attached fruit.

Word: Procedure
Meaning: a surgical or medical treatment
Example: Many anxious brides choose the weight loss procedure despite its surgical risks.

Word: Proceed
Meaning: to move forward
Example: The doctor agreed to proceed with the surgery; but only if the patient lost some weight.

Word: Proceeding
Meaning: the process of appearing before a court of law so a decision can be made
Example: During the legal proceeding; the jury found the man guilty of several serious crimes.

Word: Process
Meaning: a procedure or set of actions that is followed step-by-step
Example: The maid goes through a detailed process when cleaning up each section of the house.

Word: Procession 
Meaning: group of people or thing moving along in an orderly manner
Example: Behind the tank followed a long procession of the armored soldiers.

Word: Proclaim
Meaning: to announce or declare
Example: In order to win concert tickets; I needed to proclaim my love for the band.

Word: Proclamation 
Meaning: a public announcement about something important
Example: The angel’s proclamation warned the people that a seven year famine was coming.

Word: Proclivity
Meaning: a natural inclination or tendency to act a certain way
Example: As a young child; the award-winning singer had a proclivity for music.

Word: Procrastinate
Meaning: to put off until another time
Example: My project is late because I constantly procrastinate.

Word: Procrustean
Meaning: related to forcing everyone to be the same
Example: All inhabitants in the town were forced to dress and behave the same under procrustean rulers.

Word: Procure
Meaning: to get possession of something by action or effort
Example: In order to make sandwiches to feed the homeless; we will need to procure donations from local businesses.

Word: Prod
Meaning: to push something forward; can refer to a physical object or a situation
Example: The shepherd tried to prod the sheep back in the direction of the field; but they continued to scuttle the wrong way.

Word: Prodigal
Meaning: carelessly and foolishly spending money; time; etc.
Example: If you want to save money for college; you should stop your prodigal spending sprees.

Word: Prodigious
Meaning: very large in size; force; or extent; enormous
Example: Since Stan’s car accident; he has been taking prodigious amounts of pain pills.

Word: Prodigy
Meaning: extremely talented person; especially a child
Example: The high school boy was considered a prodigy when he won the national chess championship.

Word: Producer
Meaning: an individual or organization that creates goods and services
Example: Brazil is the world's largest producer of coffee.

Word: Product
Meaning: an object made or crafted for sale
Example: Each product made at the factory must be checked by quality control before it’s shipped.

Word: Production
Meaning: making or manufacturing of things using raw materials
Example: Workers in the factory stopped production of the tires due to a broken machine.

Word: Productive
Meaning: doing or achieving a lot
Example: As productive members of society; the couple were always trying to help others.

Word: Productivity
Meaning: a measure for how efficiently well something is working
Example: Because the machines keep malfunctioning; the company’s production productivity has gone way down.

Word: Profane
Meaning: vulgar and inappropriate
Example: Because the comic’s jokes were profane and offensive to our religion; we left the show early.

Word: Profess
Meaning: to make claims about yourself that other people do not believe
Example: Although Mitch wrote a ballad to profess his love for Cara; he knew his words would not be taken seriously.

Word: Profession
Meaning: a career or occupation
Example: Unable to decide on a possession; the man decided to take a job as a waiter while he figured it out.

Word: Professional
Meaning: a person that is considered a qualified expert in a particular field or skill
Example: A professional carpenter was hired to build the cabinets inside the new house.

Word: Proffer
Meaning: an offer made to another individual
Example:  Since I am hungry; I am happy to accept your proffer of a meal.

Word: Proficient 
Meaning: able to do something very well
Example: Because Kurt is a proficient programmer; he earns a high salary for his work.

Word: Profit
Meaning: the amount of money a business has left over after subtracting any expenses
Example: The football team sold candy bars at school and kept the profit to buy new helmets and uniforms.

Word: Profitable
Meaning: bringing in more money than it cost to make the good or provide the service
Example: The chef looked for ways to make his business more profitable so that he wouldn’t have to shut the doors for good.

Word: Profligate
Meaning: 1.) wildly extravagant or wasteful; 2.) shamelessly immoral
Example: After the millionaire saw evidence of his new wife's profligate spending; he quickly filed for a divorce.

Word: Profound
Meaning: extremely deep
Example: The speaker’s profound words made me think about my future.

Word: Profundity 
Meaning: words that express deep reflection or insight
Example: Even though Chuck thought he was making some deep statements; he was too drunk to express any profundity.

Word: Profuse
Meaning: in a large amount; abundant
Example: Jonathan has gained so much weight that even his doctor is concerned about his profuse growth.

Word: Profusion
Meaning: being in great abundance
Example: In the summer; my dog is always covered with a profusion of fleas.

Word: Progenitor
Meaning: any of a person's direct ancestors; an ancestral form of a species
Example: Sharing a common progenitor meant that the two best friends were also 3rd cousins.

Word: Progeny
Meaning: descendants or offspring
Example: Because the billionaire bachelor did not have a progeny; his entire estate went to charity when he died.

Word: Prognosis 
Meaning: the predicted outcome of a situation
Example: After being hit by a car; the small dog’s health prognosis was not good.

Word: Prognostic
Meaning: describes something that would help predict the likely outcome of a disease or illness
Example: Performing a prognostic biopsy will tell us the stage at which the cancer is currently.

Word: Prognosticate
Meaning: to forecast the future
Example: Using computer technology; meteorologists attempt to prognosticate the future.

Word: Program
Meaning: a group of events or exercises to accomplish a certain goal
Example: The annual piano program included twenty students playing their favorite musical pieces to be judged by a panel.

Word: Prohibit
Meaning: to forbid or make something illegal
Example: The U.S. tried to prohibit people from drinking alcohol; but that law failed miserably.

Word: Prohibition
Meaning: an act of forbidding or disallowing something
Example: The prohibition of alcohol was repealed.

Word: Prohibitive
Meaning: tending to prohibit; preclude; or disallow
Example: The park association was prohibitive of bringing glass on the beach.

Word: Project
Meaning: to estimate or forecast something
Example: The weatherman will try to project the weekend weather; but no guess can be 100% accurate.

Word: Projected
Meaning: predicted or anticipated
Example: Test scores are projected to decrease over time at the school due to the continuous lack of funding affecting the quality of the education.

Word: Projectile 
Meaning: something that will be or has been expelled from some object
Example: The projectile went from the prisoner’s mouth and onto the guard’s face.

Word: Prokaryote
Meaning: a single-celled organism (such as bacteria) that lacks a nucleus and cannot be seen with the naked-eye
Example: The scientist studied the prokaryote under the microscope to see if its single-cell would multiply in certain conditions.

Word: Proletariat 
Meaning: the class that is at the bottom of the social ladder
Example: The members of the proletariat are threatening to cease their farm work if their wages are not increased.

Word: Proliferate
Meaning: spread rapidly or increase in number
Example: With the popularity of the Zumba craze; health clubs that feature this exercise class have begun to proliferate in most cities.

Word: Proliferation
Meaning: rapid increase in the number or amount of something
Example: The doctor explained that proliferation of the cancer cells shows that the cancer is spreading more rapidly than expected.

Word: Proliferation
Meaning: a rapid multiplication of parts or the increase in the number of something
Example: The proliferation of the diner’s popularity has made it difficult to find a seat without an hour wait.

Word: Prolific
Meaning: producing abundant results or works
Example: Because the huge storm is expected to produce a prolific amount of snow; government offices and schools are being closed.

Word:  Prolix 
Meaning: prone to using large words that most people do not understand
Example: The prolix professor had a habit of using complex words that most people could not comprehend.

Word: Prolixity
Meaning: long and wordy; using too many words to express a thought or idea
Example: The paper was marked down for the writer’s use of prolixity to lengthen it.

Word: Prologue 
Meaning: an introduction that usually precedes a novel or play
Example: The play’s prologue provides the audience members with insight into what they are about to watch.

Word: Prolonged
Meaning: lengthened in time; extended; drawn out
Example: The meeting was prolonged because we were waiting for our boss to arrive.

Word: Promenade
Meaning: a walk taken for pleasure; display; or exercise; a stroll
Example: My date and I went for a promenade in the park.

Word: Prominent 
Meaning: showing distinction above others in a specific area
Example: There is a six-month waiting list to see the most prominent psychiatrist in the city.

Word: Promiscuous 
Meaning: having many different sexual partners
Example: His promiscuous behavior earned him the title of a lady’s man.

Word: Promise
Meaning: an assurance or vow that something will happen
Example: The husband and wife will promise to love each other for life when they say their vows on their wedding day.

Word: Promissory
Meaning: something that implies or guarantees a promise
Example: My friend often makes promissory statements; but he always fails to keep those ludicrous promises that he makes.

Word: Promontory
Meaning: a high point of rock or land that juts into a source of water
Example: If we take one more step off the mountain’s promontory; we will fall into the ocean.

Word: Promote
Meaning: advance someone to a higher rank or position
Example: Because he had served his country so well; the General decided to promote the Corporal to the rank of Sergeant.

Word: Promotion
Meaning: advancement; elevation to the next step
Example: Hoping for a work promotion; Jessica tried to pick up extra shifts and help out the manager as much as possible.

Word: Prompt
Meaning: in good time; punctual
Example: Because I take pride in being prompt; I always leave early for work.

Word: Promptly 
Meaning: in a quick manner
Example: Fortunately; the paramedics arrived promptly and were able to save my father.

Word: Promptness
Meaning: the quality of doing something quickly or without delay
Example: Promptness of payment is appreciated; especially when you pay a few days early.

Word: Promulgate
Meaning: to make something recognized or known
Example: The purpose of the documentary is to promulgate the importance of raising funds for additional cancer research.

Word: Prone
Meaning: inclined to act a certain way
Example: Jack is prone to be quite talkative after he has consumed several beers.

Word: Prong
Meaning: each of two or more pointed parts that each project out of certain objects (i.e.; a fork) parallelly
Example: Because the prong on the end of the television cord is bent; the metal piece won’t fit into the wall outlet.

Word: Pronounce
Meaning: make the sound of (a word or part of a word); typically in the correct or a particular way
Example: Whenever the young reader didn’t know how to pronounce a complicated name; she substituted an easier one.

Word: Pronouncement
Meaning: an announcement that is formal and usually given by someone of authority
Example: After a series of incidents occurred on campus; the president of the university made a pronouncement that any harassment would result in severe consequences.

Word: Pronto
Meaning: right away or as quickly as possible
Example: The lifeguard rushed into the ocean pronto when he noticed a young child struggling to stay above water.

Word: Proof
Meaning: physical evidence that proves an accusation or idea
Example: Forensic investigators perform autopsies to search for proof of foul play.

Word: Proofread
Meaning: to look over a work or text in order to edit or amend it
Example: After working for four days on her English essay; the high schooler decided to ask her mom to proofread it so that it would be free of mistakes.

Word: Propaganda
Meaning: exaggerated or untruthful claims used to help raise support for an effort
Example: During election season; politicians often try and beat their rivals by airing propaganda on television.

Word: Propagate
Meaning: to share broadly
Example: The political candidate hopes to propagate his vision to potential voters.

Word: Propel
Meaning: to cause to move in a certain direction
Example: The seat belt stopped him from being able to propel forward during the crash.

Word: Propellant
Meaning: thing or substance that causes something else to be driven forward
Example: The student used his teacher’s hurtful words as a propellant to drive him toward success.

Word: Propensity
Meaning: a natural inclination or tendency
Example: My mother has a propensity to drink when she gets anxious.

Word: Proper
Meaning: suitable or appropriate for the situation
Example: Grandmother didn’t think that Heidi’s dress bathing suit was proper attire for the dinner table.

Word: Property
Meaning: possessions owned by a person or a business
Example: Lockers are provided for all the swimmers to put their personal property in while at the waterpark.

Word: Prophase 
Meaning: the first stage of mitosis (cell division)
Example: During the prophase; the cell chromosomes became visible as paired chromatids.

Word: Prophecy
Meaning: a prediction or foretelling of what's to come
Example: As the Persians suffered one loss after another; Daniel’s prophecy from years before was proven to be true.

Word: Prophet
Meaning: a person who speaks for God; or someone who can predict what will happen in the future
Example: In the bible; Noah was a prophet who warned the people that God would bring a flood to wipe out humanity because of all of their thievery and deceit.

Word: Prophetic 
Meaning: announcing a future happening
Example: The prophetic message accurately predicted the terrorist bombings of 2001.

Word: Prophylactic
Meaning: something used to prevent a disease
Example: Although the medicine has proven to be prophylactic; it does not prevent infection in all cases.

Word: Prophylaxis
Meaning: preventive treatment of a disease
Example: A special medication was prescribed before overseas travel as a prophylaxis to prevent malaria.

Word: Propinquity
Meaning: nearness in place or time
Example: Since my school is huge and my classes are not in near propinquity to each other; I walk a great deal between the hours of 7 am and 3 pm.

Word: Propitiate
Meaning: to make things right by doing something that is requested
Example: Only an idiot believes he can propitiate his way into heaven by giving the church all of his money.

Word: Propitious
Meaning: full of promise; favorable
Example: The beautiful Hawaiian weather made it propitious for sun bathing yesterday.

Word: Proponent
Meaning: an individual who supports a cause
Example: Because April loves animals; she is a fierce proponent of the animal rights movement.

Word: Proportion
Meaning: an amount that is part of a whole
Example: When he discovered the love letter; he blew the situation out of proportion by accusing his partner of infidelity.

Word: Proportional
Meaning: related or balanced in size; amount; or degree when compared to something else
Example: Police officers could use proportional force against the violent protestors but could not go overboard.

Word: Proportionate
Meaning: balanced in size; amount; or degree when compared to something else
Example: All investors were convinced they would receive a proportionate return of their money; but only ended up with half.

Word: Proposal
Meaning: a plan or suggestion
Example: A proposal to increase property taxes has been strongly opposed by homeowners.

Word: Propose
Meaning: to suggest a plan of action for others to consider
Example: Each band member was asked to propose a way to increase ticket sales; but no one had a suggestion.

Word: Proposition
Meaning: a proposal or plan
Example: The school agreed that teachers in the district were spending too much on their classrooms out of pocket; but had no proposition for additional funding.

Word: Propound
Meaning: to bring forth for deliberation or consideration
Example: At the faculty meeting I will propound several ideas for improving faculty morale.

Word: Proprietary
Meaning: an object or concept that is used; created; or sold by an individual or company that holds the property rights
Example: The soft drink company uses it proprietary formula to exclusively make its best selling beverage.

Word: Proprietor 
Meaning: an individual who owns a business
Example: The proprietor of the restaurant decided to close his establishment after losing money for eight months.

Word: Propriety
Meaning: following what is socially acceptable in speech and conduct; correctness of behaviour
Example: After Harold wore a clown suit to his cousin’s funeral; we had to question his sense of propriety.

Word: Proprioception
Meaning: the body’s unconscious ability to sense the position and location and movement of the body and its parts
Example: Proprioception allows a person to know where their leg is positioned; even when their eyes are closed.

Word: Propulsion
Meaning: a force or energy that causes progress or movement
Example: The plane cannot leave the hangar until its propulsion system is fixed.

Word: Propulsive
Meaning: having the power to move forward
Example: When she got sick; the force of her stomach tensing was propulsive.

Word: Prorogue
Meaning: to defer or discontinue Parliament or other government business for a period of time
Example: The governor was advised to prorogue Parliament for now and call a meeting at a later date.

Word: Prosaic
Meaning: commonplace or dull; unimaginative
Example: Because the biggest thing in my hometown is the grocery store; the city really is a prosaic little place.

Word: Proscribe 
Meaning: to forbid something
Example: In our country; there are laws which proscribe discrimination based on race and gender.

Word: Prose 
Meaning: written language other than poetry
Example: I did not know my husband could write such elegant prose until he mailed me long letters while he was stationed overseas.

Word: Prosecute
Meaning: to hold trial against someone charged with a crime
Example: DNA evidence was used to prosecute the killer and lock him up for good.

Word: Prosecution
Meaning: the process of holding a trial against a person who is accused of a crime
Example: Prosecution of the defendant will be difficult since the evidence against him is all circumstantial.

Word: Prosecutor
Meaning: a government attorney who presents the state's case against the defendant during criminal prosecution
Example: A special prosecutor was called in to handle the murder trial of the governor’s son.

Word: Prosecutor
Meaning: a member of legal court; typically a lawyer; that argues against the defendant and tries to prove them guilty of pressed charges
Example: We hired a lawyer to be a prosecutor on our behalf; pressing our charges against the defendant for us.

Word: Proselyte 
Meaning: one who has converted to a religion or doctrine
Example: The Christian proselyte converted after twenty years as an atheist.

Word: Prosody
Meaning: rhyme and sound patterns used in poetry
Example: The main elements of linguistic prosody in poetry are intonation; rhyme; and stress.

Word: Prospect 
Meaning: an individual who is likely to be selected or targeted
Example: Jared improved his computer skills so he would be a good prospect for the job opening in the technology department.

Word: Prospective
Meaning: likely to happen
Example: Calculating his prospective earnings for the next six months was difficult since business tends to ebb and flow.

Word: Prospector
Meaning: an explorer in search of mineral deposits
Example: The gold prospector ventured to the area in 1867 looking to strike it rich.

Word: Prosper
Meaning: to be successful
Example: In order for the business to prosper; the company had to reduce the amount of miscellaneous spending.

Word: Prosperity 
Meaning: an abundance of resources
Example: When Jake reached his goal of prosperity; he realized he had neglected his family for his professional achievements.

Word: Prosperous
Meaning: successful; well off
Example: The prosperous man never had to worry about having enough money to pay his bills.

Word: Prosperously
Meaning: wealthily
Example: Living prosperously; the Jeffersons could now afford to move up to a deluxe apartment in the sky.

Word: Prosthesis
Meaning: artificial replacement for a body part
Example: Many young children and even some adults stared at the young veteran soldier as he limped down the aisle of the store wearing a prosthesis where his leg used to be.

Word: Prostrate
Meaning: in a flat position where a person’s face is turned downward
Example: When Jill discovered her husband had left her; she fell prostrate on the couch and buried her face against the cushions.

Word: Protagonist 
Meaning: the leading character in a literary composition
Example: The protagonist was willing to give his life for the woman he loved.

Word: Protean
Meaning: changing often; variable
Example: Because the woman’s affections are protean; she has ten ex-husbands.

Word: Protect
Meaning: to protect or guard against something
Example: Promising to protect and serve; the police officer’s main goal was to make the city a safer place for its residents.

Word: Protection
Meaning: something used to protect or guard
Example: A protection spell was cast by the good witch to shield all the people in the kingdom from evil.

Word: Protectorate
Meaning: a small country that is controlled and protected by a larger; stronger one
Example: The protectorate was grateful that they had a watchful eye over their state.

Word: Protein
Meaning: a needed nutrient found in certain foods (meat; milk; eggs; and beans) that is made up of many amino acids joined together
Example: Several protein shakes on the market claim to have enough nutrients to build muscle with little exercise.

Word: Protest
Meaning: an expression of disagreement or disapproval to something wrong or unfair
Example: The protest in Selma helped African Americans gain the freedom to exercise the right to vote.

Word: Protestant
Meaning: a member of the Western Christian Church whose faith is founded on the Reformation (movement away from the Catholic Church) and the acceptance in the Bible
Example: As a part of religious reform; the Bible-reading Protestant rejected the authority of the Pope and many other Catholic traditions and beliefs.

Word: Protocol 
Meaning: guidelines for conduct in specific environments as well as for diplomats and heads of state
Example: Harold broke protocol when he approached the queen without being summoned.

Word: Proton 
Meaning: a particle that is part of the nucleus of an atom and has a positive charge
Example: A hydrogen atom consists of just one very small positively charged proton.

Word: Protoplasm
Meaning: an outdated term for the clear; fluid like substance that forms the living content of all animal or plant cells
Example: Scientifically speaking; protoplasm is the living contents of a cell surrounded by a plasma membrane.

Word: Prototype
Meaning: the original model of something serving as a typical example
Example: The builders created a prototype for how the subdivision was to look.

Word: Protozoa
Meaning: any of a large group of single cellular animals that lives in water or as a parasite
Example: Using cilia to move around; the unicellular protozoa made its way through the marsh.

Word: Protract
Meaning: to prolong in time or space
Example: The committee voted to protract the discussions of an amendment to their mission statement.

Word: Protrude
Meaning: to push out
Example: The blow made the man’s teeth protrude from his mouth.

Word: Protrusion
Meaning: something that protrudes or sticks out from something else
Example: Within a few weeks of discovering the mass; the protrusion on the patient’s jaw had doubled in size.

Word: Protuberance
Meaning: something that protrudes or sticks out from something else
Example: A hairy protuberance from the woman’s nose stuck out just enough to make the neighborhood children think she was a witch.

Word: Protuberant
Meaning: protruding; bulging
Example: The eerie looking fish had a protuberant jaw that stuck out from the rest of his small body and was filled with bony teeth.

Word: Proud
Meaning: feeling deep pleasure or satisfaction for one’s accomplishments
Example: The proud father beamed as he watched his firstborn daughter walk across the stage at her college graduation.

Word: Prove
Meaning: to show or demonstrate
Example: The only way to prove that you did not use a calculator to answer the equation is to show your work on paper.

Word: Proven
Meaning: shown or demonstrated
Example: By showing up on time every day for a year; the worker had proven dependability.

Word: Provenance
Meaning: origin or the source of where something derived from
Example: Since the provenance of this dish came from Italy; many people wanted to go to Italy to taste the actual authentic dish.

Word: Proverb
Meaning: a sentence that people often quote to which gives advice or state a universal truth
Example: An old proverb says that an attorney who represents himself has a fool for a client.

Word: Proverbial
Meaning: used often to describe something
Example: Everyone in class knew the proverbial quote from the hit animated comedy.

Word: Provide
Meaning: to give or supply
Example: Militants refused to surrender or provide opposing forces with information about their mission.

Word: Providence
Meaning: good management of resources needed for the future
Example: Because of Jim’s providence; he and his wife have a nice retirement egg.

Word: Provident
Meaning: demonstrating great care and consideration for the future
Example: My financier told me that I needed to be more provident when it came to my spending.

Word: Providential
Meaning: fortunate
Example: It was providential that I moved out of the way before being struck by the oncoming vehicle.

Word: Province
Meaning: a region within a country
Example: Province leaders insist that the new energy plant will bring 3;000 jobs to the region within five years.

Word: Provincial
Meaning: 
Example: Even though James had travelled all over the world; he still wore clothing which was quite provincial and outdated.

Word: Provision 
Meaning: actions taken to meet a possible need
Example: The tax provision ensures lenders will not raise interest rates above a certain percentage.

Word: Provisional 
Meaning: temporary; but with the intention of eventually becoming permanent or being replaced by a permanent equivalent
Example: Provisional custody arrangements favored the mother; but the children were later ordered to live with their father.

Word: Proviso
Meaning: a conditional stipulation attached to an agreement
Example: A proviso was added to the bill to make sure that the likelihood of theft would be diminished.

Word: Provocation
Meaning: anything or anyone that incites a response
Example:  I walked away from a potential fight despite my enemy’s provocation.

Word: Provocative
Meaning: tending to provoke or stimulate
Example: When the editor read the provocative article which urged people to destroy government buildings; he insisted the writer redo the entire piece.

Word: Provoke
Meaning: to trigger a reaction; often an angry one
Example: The pictures of the victim’s body are sure to provoke feelings of anger within the jury.

Word: Provost
Meaning: the senior administrative officer in a college or university
Example: The provost at my college is in charge of all administrative functions; being the senior administrative officer there.

Word: Prow
Meaning: the front part of a boat or ship
Example: On the prow of ancient ships; the Chinese would pain eyes to protect sailors from evil and lead them through the darkness.

Word: Prowess
Meaning: Skill or expertise in an activity or field
Example: Christina used her hunting prowess to survive in the woods for a week.

Word: Prowl
Meaning: to move around quietly in a place trying not to be heard or seen
Example: I called the police when I noticed a masked man prowl through the neighborhood.

Word: Proxemics
Meaning: the study of cultural; behavioral; and sociological effects of spatial distances between individuals
Example: Proxemics is the study of how people use and perceive the physical space around them.

Word: Proximal
Meaning: something that is nearby or close to something else
Example: Since the stab wound was proximal to the heart; the doctors feared that it might have penetrated the outer layer of the man’s heart.

Word: Proximity
Meaning: the nearness of one thing or person to another
Example: Because Mary left her sandwich in close proximity to her dog; she did not have anything for lunch.

Word: Proxy 
Meaning: one who has been given permission to act for another
Example: When my husband and I are out of the country; my sister is the proxy who signs legal documents for our children.

Word: Prude
Meaning: one who is easily offended or shocked by rude things
Example: I wouldn’t consider myself a prude; but I was offended at the comedian’s off-color jokes.

Word: Prudent
Meaning: marked by wisdom or sound judgment
Example: It is not prudent to go swimming during a hurricane.

Word: Prudish
Meaning: too proper or modest in behavior or dress
Example: My grandmother’s narrowminded and prudish viewpoints do not line up with today’s world views.

Word: Prurient
Meaning: experiencing an undue amount of interest in things relating to sex
Example: The prurient teenager would not stop looking at the adult magazines in the store.

Word: Pry
Meaning: to look where one is not welcome; to be nosey
Example: Her reputation was that she liked to pry into people’s private lives.

Word: Psalm
Meaning: a sacred song or hymn used during worship
Example: The gospel song is based on an old bible psalm about daily worship.

Word: Pseudo
Meaning: someone or something fake trying to come off as the real thing
Example: We were not duped by North Korea’s pseudo democratic elections.

Word: Pseudonym
Meaning: a fake name often used by authors and famous people who want to avoid detection
Example: The famous singer always checks into hotels under a pseudonym so her fans will not find her.

Word: Pseudoscience 
Meaning: an idea. claim; or belief that looks like science; but is not
Example: Because no connection between the positions of stars and human behavior can be proven scientifically; astronomy is classified as pseudoscience.

Word: Pshaw
Meaning: an exclamation used to show disbelief or irritation
Example: Pshaw; you had better run if there really is a bear in your tent!

Word: Psyche
Meaning: an individual’s spirit; soul; or mind
Example: When the old man lost his job to a college graduate; his psyche took a devastating blow.

Word: Psychedelic
Meaning: describing the effects of drugs that produce hallucinations
Example: Hallucinations may be the product of psychedelic drugs that make you see things that aren’t really there; such as LSD.

Word: Psychology
Meaning: the study of the human mind
Example: Studying psychology helped the teacher better understand the minds of her students.

Word: Psychosis
Meaning: a severe mental disorder
Example: After three doctor visits; the man suffered from psychosis due to his mind-altering hallucinations and obscure delusions.

Word: Psychosomatic
Meaning: (of an illness) caused by mental problems; such as stress or anxiety; rather than physical problems
Example: Due to the constant worry of losing his job; Bob’s psychosomatic headaches would be cured when he stopped worrying.

Word: Puberty
Meaning: the phase of growth in which a person’s body makes the transition from child to adult
Example: Most people go through puberty at roughly age thirteen to sixteen; or what is generally considered the ‘teenage’ years.

Word: Pubescent
Meaning: associated with an individual who is near or has reached the phase of adolescence
Example: The pubescent girls lined up to get an autograph from their favorite teen heartthrob.

Word: Publication
Meaning: the act of making information or writing available
Example: The editor is overseeing the publication of a new magazine for college students.

Word: Publicity
Meaning: public attention; or something that is within the public eye
Example: If you want more publicity as an author; you will need to work with good publishers to get your name out there for everyone to see.

Word: Publisher
Meaning: a person or company prepares and issues written news; books; journals; or music for sale
Example: The publisher will only agree to release the journal if the author signs over all rights.

Word: Pudgy
Meaning: describes a person or body part that is fat or chubby
Example: After gaining several pounds; Claire could no longer fit her wedding ring on her pudgy fingers.

Word: Pueblo
Meaning: a series of clay or stone homes of many stories built by Native Americans and organized into a settlement
Example: The beautiful burnt orange colors of the houses that made up the pueblo of the tribe dazzled tourists.

Word: Puerile
Meaning: silly or childish especially in a way that shows a lack of seriousness or good judgment
Example: Since my son is thirty-three years of age; I do not find his puerile behavior amusing.

Word: Puff
Meaning: a small cloud of air; smoke; or vapor
Example: Children love to let out a puff of breath in the winter because it creates a tiny cloud.

Word: Puffy
Meaning: bloated and bulging
Example: After falling off my bike; my leg was red and puffy from the infection under the skin.

Word: Pugilism
Meaning: the practice of warring with fists
Example: The inexperienced boxer had a lot to learn about the sport of pugilism.

Word: Pugnacious
Meaning: Combative in nature; ready to fight
Example: The pugnacious little boy constantly talks back to his mother.

Word: Puissance
Meaning: the power; might; force or strength of someone or something
Example: By overstepping his boundaries; William took his puissance as the company president and changed the century-old by-laws to fit his preferences.

Word: Puissant
Meaning: having a large amount of authority or power
Example: Because the dictator was puissant; he could do anything he wanted without seeking permission.

Word: Pulchritude
Meaning: physical beauty
Example: Because we all know that beauty is only skin deep; you should always look beneath the pulchritude on the outside to see what’s going on in a person’s heart and soul.

Word: Pulchritudinous
Meaning: having great physical beauty
Example: Jack loves to stand in front of his mirror; staring at his pulchritudinous face.

Word: Pulley
Meaning: a simple machine designed to lift something very heavy
Example: To raise a flag on a pole; the use of a pulley is mandatory in order to move the flag up and down.

Word: Pullulate
Meaning: to be crowded or overpopulated
Example: At the annual Tri-State Farmer’s Auction; the cows would pullulate in the small pen barely having any room to move around.

Word: Pulmonary
Meaning: related to lungs
Example: Another way of saying “pulmonary disease” is “lung disease.”

Word: Pulsate
Meaning: to expand and contract rhythmically; to throb or beat
Example: Every time Patricia saw her crush pass her in the hallway; her heart would rapidly pulsate as she would stare at him.

Word: Pulse
Meaning: the throb from the heart
Example: After running for a mile; I felt the pulse in my throat vibrate with the beat of my heart.

Word: Pulverize
Meaning: to break into tiny pieces or destroy
Example: The tiny wrestler knew his giant opponent was going to pulverize him.

Word: Pummel
Meaning: to hit or strike heavily and repeatedly
Example: After attacking the little old lady; she made the quick decision to pummel him with her purse.

Word: Pump
Meaning: to force a substance (i.e.; liquid; gas) to move in a certain direction by force
Example: The little boy has just learned to pump gasoline into the car’s tank by squeezing the lever.

Word: Pun
Meaning: a joke that makes use of one word with multiple meanings or words that sound the same but have different meanings
Example: An example of a pun is ‘a bicycle can’t stand on its own because it’s two-tired;’ a joke that makes me groan every time I hear it.

Word: Punctilio
Meaning: a fine point in exactness of conduct; ceremony or procedure. Strictness in observance of formalities
Example: Without fail; the punctilio required during each of Ms. Layman’s garden parties was for the attendees to raise their glasses and give a cheer to the patron saint of married women.

Word: Punctilious
Meaning: showing great attention to detail or correct behavior
Example: Because my aunt is quite punctilious when it comes to table settings; every utensil must be turned properly.

Word: Punctual
Meaning: prompt or on time
Example: He was not known for being punctual; which is why they told him to arrive thirty minutes early.

Word: Punctuality
Meaning: promptness for an appointment or event
Example: Sarah’s boss knew the store would open on time due to Sarah’s punctuality for work.

Word: Puncture
Meaning: to pierce something causing a hole or perforation
Example: Using her finger nail to puncture the balloon; Rita hoped the loud pop would scare her little sister.

Word: Pundit
Meaning: one who gives his opinion as an expert in a specific field
Example: During the trial; the prosecutor will call upon a pundit of forensics to link the evidence to the suspect.

Word: Pungency
Meaning: the condition of having a strong; sharp smell or flavor that is often so strong that it is unpleasant
Example: The pungency of the onions caused us to cover our noses and gag when driving by the patch where the wild ones grow.

Word: Pungent
Meaning: having an intense flavor or odor
Example: When the pungent smell of rotten eggs filled the house; I held my nose.

Word: Punish
Meaning: to put a penalty or consequence in place
Example: New laws were put in place to punish those who continue to break littering laws.

Word: Punishable
Meaning: describes and action or offense that one deserves punishment or penalty for committing
Example: The student’s actions were punishable by suspension; but the principal decided to give them a warning instead.

Word: Punishment
Meaning: a penalty that is imposed after a crime or offense has been committed
Example: The only punishment that seemed to change the child’s behavior was having to walk laps at recess.

Word: Punitive 
Meaning: done as an act of punishment
Example: The purpose of the punitive lawsuit’s community service ruling is to forever remind the drunk driver of the cost of his actions.

Word: Punk
Meaning: a criminal or hoodlum
Example: We watched in shock as a young punk covered the stop sign with bullets; laughing as he fled.

Word: Punt
Meaning: a football kick where the ball is let go and kicked while still in the air
Example: The player took the football and released it in order to punt the ball with his foot into the air.

Word: Punter
Meaning: the football player who kicks the ball to the other team
Example: During the champion football game; the punter kicked the pigskin to the opposing team after the fourth down.

Word: Puny
Meaning: tiny and weak
Example: People underestimate my strength because I appear puny.

Word: Pupil
Meaning: a student; especially a young one
Example: The pupil was very excited about their first day of middle school.

Word: Puppy
Meaning: a dog that is 12 months or younger
Example: The cute little puppy barked often and played with other puppies in the backyard.

Word: Purblind
Meaning: lacking vision or insight into a situation
Example: Even with scientific proof; purblind politicians have refused to accept that global warming exists.

Word: Purchase
Meaning: to buy something with money
Example: If you want to purchase tickets for the festival; you will need to bring forty dollars to the gate.

Word: Pure
Meaning: clean and free of any contaminants
Example: The dirty water was processed and made pure through the filtering system.

Word: Purely
Meaning: entirely; completely
Example: The man and woman insisted that their relationship was purely innocent and that an affair was not taking place.

Word: Purgative
Meaning: cleansing; especially when referring to the ability to get rid of unwanted waste
Example: The purgative laxative helped the constipated patient get rid of his body’s backed up waste.

Word: Purgatory 
Meaning: a situation that causes misery
Example: To the teenage girl; listening to her teachers’ boring lectures all day was purgatory.

Word: Purge
Meaning: to get rid of something or someone
Example: After he saw his parents making out in the back seat of their Buick; Kevin vowed that he would do whatever it took to purge the image from his brain.

Word: Purify
Meaning: to cleanse something; to remove contaminants
Example: Pumps were used to purify the dirty water that came from the pond.

Word: Purist
Meaning: a perfectionist who believes in sticking to all of the rules
Example: Dressed in a suit and tie; the purist raised his hand every time to answer each question the teacher asked.

Word: Puritan
Meaning: a group of strict religious people who came to America in the 16th century
Example: Worship was a significant daily aspect in the life of a Puritan with most of their time being devoted to church.

Word: Puritanical
Meaning: practicing very strict moral or religious behavior
Example: My parents are extremely puritanical and will not allow me to date.

Word: Purity
Meaning: the state of being clean and clear; not mixed with anything else
Example: The purity of the snow caused it to stand out with its dazzling whiteness.

Word: Purlieus
Meaning: the area surrounding a place
Example: The townspeople searched the purlieus of the area where the dog disappeared; hoping that they would be able to find him on the outer edge.

Word: Purloin
Meaning: to take another’s belongings without permission
Example: Because Eddie tried to purloin the woman’s purse; he spent the night in jail.

Word: Purport
Meaning: to imply something is true although it is most likely false
Example: The drug manufacturer knows it is against the law to purport claims about its product’s effectiveness.

Word: Purported
Meaning: claimed that something was true without proof
Example: The purported rumors were proven untrue; and the man who made the allegations against the celebrity was asked to apologize.

Word: Purportedly
Meaning: assumed to be so; allegedly
Example: The house is purportedly worth a million dollars; but will probably appraise for much more.

Word: Purpose
Meaning: the reason for which something is done or created
Example: The purpose of the veteran parade is to honor those who have served in the military.

Word: Purposeful
Meaning: to do something for a reason
Example: Every writer knows that proofreading is just as purposeful in the writing process as actually writing the work itself.

Word: Purposefully
Meaning: doing something with a sense of purpose or in a determined way
Example: The model purposefully avoids sweets and bread so that she can keep her weight down.

Word: Purposeless
Meaning: irrational and pointless
Example: Once I heard the story about the police officer being killed; I knew this was a purposeless act of violence.

Word: Purr
Meaning: a low vibrating sound; usually made by a cat or a vehicle
Example: Letting out a low purr; the cat let her owner know that she enjoyed being petted.

Word: Purse
Meaning: a purse is a bag used to carry personal items
Example: For the charity event; she wore a green chiffon dress and a matching purse on her shoulder.

Word: Pursuance
Meaning: the following or carrying out of a plan
Example: Though her parents though she should be a doctor; the sculptor decided to continue with her pursuance of an art degree.

Word: Pursuant
Meaning: in agreement with or according to a law; request; or ruling
Example: The sentencing will take place this Friday; pursuant to New Jersey law.

Word: Pursue
Meaning: to follow urgently / to aim for
Example: The cops had to pursue the suspect until they were able to capture him.

Word: Pursuer
Meaning: someone or something that trails or follow someone or something else
Example: Betty’s pursuer followed her around the dark corner even though she was running at top speed.

Word: Pursuit
Meaning: the action of going after something or someone
Example: The police officer is in pursuit of the escaped prisoner.

Word: Purveyor 
Meaning: an individual who provides supplies for others; often food
Example: Even during times of war rationing; the purveyor was able to find coffee and sugar for the wealthy families.

Word: Purview
Meaning: area of authority or control
Example: The accountant’s purview includes any of the company’s financial matters.

Word: Pushy
Meaning: aggressive and tending to use forceful methods to get others to do what you want them to do
Example: The pushy salesperson kept trying to sell his wares even though the people on the beach didn’t want to buy.

Word: Pusillanimous
Meaning: lacking bravery or courage
Example: The pusillanimous soldier cried because he was scared of the gunfire.

Word: Put down
Meaning: a degrading statement that criticizes or insults
Example: Although he claimed to be joking; the overweight woman knew that her boss’s fat joke was a directed put down.

Word: Put Off
Meaning: an undesirable or unpleasant feature of something
Example: I was enjoying the movie for the first hour; but the dark mood of the second half was a put off for me.

Word: Put out
Meaning: to release something or make it available
Example: The band has put out a new record that was made available on iTunes last Friday.

Word: Put up
Meaning: to offer or show a certain skill or emotion in a difficult situation
Example: The boxer put up a strong fight but wasn’t able to defeat his opponent in any of the rounds.

Word:  Putative
Meaning: assumed to be as such
Example: Even though there has not been a DNA test; everyone accepts Jason as the girl’s putative father.

Word: Putrefaction
Meaning: rotting; decay
Example: Putrefaction of the animal made the area where it died smell horrible.

Word: Putrefy
Meaning: to produce a strong odor while decaying
Example: So many soldiers died during the war; with their decomposing bodies left to putrefy in the fields.

Word: Putrid
Meaning: rotting; rotten; being in a state of putrefaction
Example: Dealing with dead bodies; he encountered plenty of putrid odors.

Word: Puzzled
Meaning: confused; perplexed
Example: Footprints in the snow puzzled the hunters who mistakenly assumed they were alone in the forest.

Word: Puzzlement
Meaning: a feeling of confusion or bewilderment
Example: The student voiced his puzzlement when trying to solve the complex geometry problem.

Word: Pyramid
Meaning: a structure with sloping sides that meets at the top and sits on a triangular or square base
Example: A pyramid of delicious cupcakes was positioned on the triangular display.

Word: Pyre
Meaning: a pile of flammable materials; often used for burning bodies
Example: Over the pyre of wood in the backyard; we roasted marshmallows and hot dogs.

Word: Pyromania
Meaning: a strong urge to start fire to things
Example: Due to his obsession with pyromania; the criminal was sentenced to 15 years in prison for the arson of several properties.

Word: Pyrotechnic
Meaning: related to the manufacture or use of fireworks
Example: The rock concert’s finale included a pyrotechnic lightshow that lit up the night sky.

Word: Pyrrhic
Meaning: a victory that is won but has devastating effects on the victor
Example: Though the new mayor should have been happy to have won the pyrrhic election; the damage on his reputation made the win seem worthless.

Word: Qua
Meaning: used to say “as” or “as a”
Example: At the gallery; the work of art qua art is being displayed in a special showroom.

Word: Quackery
Meaning: dishonest practices and claims to have special knowledge and skill in some field; typically medicine
Example: Because of the medical quackery going on in the clinic; the dishonest practitioner was shut down.

Word: Quadrangle
Meaning: a rectangular or square shaped courtyard
Example: Overlooking the quadrangle; the children could not wait to leave their apartment and play in the square courtyard.

Word: Quadrant
Meaning: one section of something that is divided into four parts
Example: During the hurricane; the low-lying fourth quadrant of the city was hit much harder than the other three areas.

Word: Quadrennial
Meaning: lasting or occurring every four years
Example: The quadrennial election happens every four years.

Word: Quadriceps
Meaning: A large muscle in the thigh (front) that is used to extend the leg or bend the hip
Example: Stretching his quadriceps helped the runner prepare for the strain his leg would endure during the race.

Word: Quadrilateral
Meaning: Four-sided
Example: The quadrilateral shaped garden contained a different vegetable in each of the four quadrants.

Word: Quadruped
Meaning: an animal that has four feet
Example: My little girl likes to walk on her knees and hands like a quadruped.

Word: Quadruple
Meaning: multiply by four
Example: When the star player took the basketball court; the home team’s score seemed to quadruple within a short period of time from 10 to 40.

Word: Quadruplicate
Meaning: to multiply something by four
Example: Since there were four members in each group; we had to quadruplicate the craft supplies by four.

Word: Quaff
Meaning: to hastily consume a beverage
Example: The huge athlete was able to quaff down a gallon of water in less than two minutes.

Word: Quagmire
Meaning: a situation from which it is hard to escape
Example: Many young people do not realize the quagmire to which occasional drug use can lead.

Word: Quail
Meaning: a small; short-tailed; commonly hunted bird
Example: Known as a gourmet chef; Emeril Lagasse created a masterpiece of flavors by snipping off the wings and removing the feathers off the quail before roasting and serving it to the queen.

Word: Quaint
Meaning: appearing old-fashioned in an appealing way
Example: My grandmother’s quaint home is filled with knick-knacks from her childhood.

Word: Quaker
Meaning: A nickname for a religious member of the Religious Society of Friends
Example: The Quaker believer spent his nights reading the doctrine of the Inner Light.

Word: Qualification
Meaning: a special skill or requirement that makes a person eligible for a position or activity
Example: Credit qualification was required before the lender would approved the mortgage loan.

Word: Qualifier
Meaning: a person (or team) that qualifies for something
Example: As a third-round qualifier; the runner will go on to the Olympic games.

Word: Qualify
Meaning: to become eligible or suitable for something
Example: To qualify for a housing loan; the applicant had to raise his credit score by several points.

Word: Qualitative
Meaning: associated with type or quality
Example: The qualitative study will reveal the elements present in the compound.

Word: Qualities
Meaning: attributes or characteristics of a person; place; or thing
Example: Although her date had many of the qualities she desired in a husband; the woman could not get over his tendency to chew with his mouth open.

Word: Quality control
Meaning: a system for maintaining a desired level of quality in an existing product or service
Example: The quality control officer oversees making sure all of the products going out are in adequate condition.

Word: Qualm
Meaning:  a feeling of doubt or uncertainty about whether you are doing the right thing
Example: Under the influence of drugs; Matt had no qualm whatsoever about spending all of his money at the casino.

Word: Quandary
Meaning: a state of doubt about what to do in a certain situation; a difficult situation
Example: Mark is in a quandary about whether or not he should keep the money he found in the park.

Word: Quantifiable
Meaning: able to be measured
Example: Scientists used a calculator to average the quantifiable data gathered during the experiment.

Word: Quantify
Meaning: to assign a quantity to
Example: In my statistics class; we needed to quantify the probability of winning the lottery.

Word: Quantitative
Meaning: pertaining to the measureable amount of something
Example: After writing down everyone’s height in his 4th period class; the student analyzed the quantitative data to determine he was the tallest student in the class.

Word: Quantity
Meaning: the amount of something
Example: The store owner checked the quantity of tires and realized he needed to order more.

Word: Quantum
Meaning: The smallest amount of something; specifically energy
Example: Measuring the quantum amount of the object essentially destroyed it.

Word: Quarantine
Meaning: a place where individuals or animals who have contagious diseases are held
Example: Until it is determined whether or not the dog has rabies; it will be placed in quarantine.

Word: Quarrel 
Meaning: a verbal disagreement that is usually noisy
Example: The quarrel my husband and I had was so loud it woke our children.

Word: Quarrelsome
Meaning: argumentative; confrontational
Example: The younger brother’s quarrelsome nature resulted in constant arguments and the splitting of the family business.

Word: Quarry
Meaning: an area from which materials like stone are removed
Example: At night; the moonlight caused the stones in the quarry to shine.

Word: Quarter
Meaning: one of four equal parts
Example: With five minutes left on the clock; the defense performed much better than they did in the previous quarter.

Word: Quartet
Meaning: a musical group with four members
Example: The final performance had to be postponed since two of the four members were sick with the flu.

Word: Quasar
Meaning: an incredibly distant celestial object made of a vivid mass of light and energy
Example: A quasar is a cosmic entity that is filled with energy.

Word: Quash
Meaning: to put an end to something
Example: Refusing to give in to the toddler’s demands; the exasperated mother was hell-bent on coming up with a plan to quash the tantrums.

Word: Quasi 
Meaning: having features that are similar to another thing
Example: Since my father was in the military for twenty-five years; he treats our home like it is a quasi-base camp.

Word: Quaver
Meaning: a tremor in an individual’s voice usually caused by nervousness or anxiety
Example: You could hear a quaver in the nervous girl’s tone.

Word: Quavering
Meaning: shaking; trembling; or vibrating
Example: The little girl’s quavering body continued to shake as she looked for the monster under her bed.

Word: Quay
Meaning: a concrete loading dock situated on the edge of a body of water
Example: After years of loading and unloading freight on top of it; sections of the old concrete quay began to crumble into the sea.

Word: Queasy
Meaning: feeling sick and nauseated
Example: As the boat began to pick up speed; a few of the ship’s passengers began to feel queasy from the motion.

Word: Queen
Meaning: a woman ruler of a kingdom or country
Example: Presenting a feast fit for a queen; the peasants tried to make sure everything was in place for her majesty.

Word: Queer
Meaning: strange; odd
Example: Peering into the queer little house; Georgia couldn’t understand why all the unusually shaped furniture was painted pink and blue.

Word: Quell
Meaning: to calm or reduce
Example: Before Sarah gives a speech; she always drinks a shot of whiskey to quell her nerves.

Word: Quench
Meaning: to satisfy an actual or figurative thirst; or to put out a fire
Example: Aiming to quench her thirst; the runner guzzled down the water at full speed.

Word: Querulous
Meaning: full of complaints; complaining
Example: If there was an award for being querulous; my aunt would win because she is always complaining about something.

Word: Query
Meaning: an inquiry for information
Example: State officials have launched a query into allegations of judicial misconduct by Judge Petros.

Word: Quest
Meaning: a trip taken to find something or someone
Example: Jan’s quest for fame led her to do immoral things.

Word: Question
Meaning: to interrogate or cross-examine someone while looking for answers
Example: Police continued to question the suspect in an attempt to get him to confess to the crime.

Word: Questionable
Meaning: not certain; doubtful
Example: Attending the game is questionable since it will probably be rescheduled due to rain.

Word: Questionnaire
Meaning: a set of questions used to gain specific information from people responding to the survey
Example: Respondents to the second questionnaire provided follow up information about the types of cleaning products they use.

Word: Queue
Meaning: a waiting list or line in which people and/or problems are dealt with in order
Example: We stood in the queue for hours waiting to get tickets to the championship game.

Word: Quib
Meaning: a witty or clever remark that is said in a taunting way
Example: The barmaid continued to flirt with the man; throwing every quib and witty joke she could think of into the conversation.

Word: Quibble
Meaning: to quarrel about minor matters
Example: It is normal for married couples to quibble over small things like who controls the television remote.

Word: Quick
Meaning: moving fast or doing something in a short timeframe
Example: The rabbit was much too quick for my large dog to catch him; darting away and into a small crevice.

Word: Quickly
Meaning: at a rapid speed; fastly
Example: Speeding quickly down the highway; the distracted driver missed a curve and careened off of the mountainside.

Word: Quid pro quo
Meaning: a Latin term that refers to a deal in which something is given but only in exchange for something else; often use in legal cases
Example: Continuing quid pro quo; the bread maker always gave the butcher loaves in exchange for beef.

Word: Quiddity
Meaning: the qualities of something that makes it what it is; usually on purpose
Example: The quiddity of motherhood was reflected in Ms. Dowling because she was always baking cookies and tending to her child’s needs.

Word: Quidnunc
Meaning: a busybody who always wants to know other people’s business
Example: The town’s biggest quidnunc; Nancy loved to gossip about other people’s personal lives.

Word: Quiescent 
Meaning: not active; quiet
Example: For once; our hyperactive Great Dane is quiescent and resting on the rug.

Word: Quiet
Meaning: calm with little or no noise
Example: Moving into a quiet neighborhood; the couple was glad to be able to sleep peacefully at night.

Word: Quietude
Meaning: a state of quiet stillness and calmness
Example: In quietude and coolness; the couple enjoyed a picnic on a grassy knoll beside the calm stream.

Word: Quietus
Meaning: the termination of something; usually unpleasant in nature
Example: The police officer’s arrival brought a quietus to the argument between the two neighbors.

Word: Quill
Meaning: a pen made from the feather of a bird
Example: Placing the pointed black quill on the paper; the president prepared to write a letter to the general.

Word: Quilt
Meaning: a blanket made by sewing fabric squares or pieces together usually in a pattern
Example: When I unfolded my grandmother’s hand-sewn quilt; I could see different shapes coming together in a specific design.

Word: Quintessence
Meaning: most perfect example of its type
Example: Hillary has always been the quintessence of high fashion; so I was taken aback when I saw her wearing an old; saggy pair of jeans and a ragged T-shirt.

Word: Quintessential
Meaning: a model example of a specific quality
Example: The critics love the director’s latest film and consider it to be the quintessential horror movie.

Word: Quip
Meaning: a clever statement
Example: The president responded to the journalist’s question with a clever quip.

Word: Quirk
Meaning: an odd behavior or different way of acting
Example: Janice has this irritating quirk of rolling her eyes whenever she speaks.

Word: Quirky
Meaning: unusual; but in an attractive or interesting way
Example: The quirky yellow cottage is decorated in a strange yet attractive way.

Word: Quisling
Meaning: a traitor who helps an enemy that has taken control of his or her country
Example: The quisling was a traitor who helped the British when they came to try and take over his country.

Word: Quit
Meaning: to leave a place or stop doing a task
Example: The teacher wanted to quit her job; but she has to find another one first.

Word: Quitclaim
Meaning: a legal document that transfers ownership of a property from one person to another
Example: A quitclaim deed was issued to Jenny after her mother transferred the property into her name.

Word: Quite
Meaning: significantly; fairly
Example: Seasoned wings were quite tasty; but not as delicious as the corn on the cob.

Word: Quiver
Meaning: to shudder with a slight sound or motion; usually because of strong feelings
Example: I knew Jill was upset when her lips started to quiver.

Word: Quivering
Meaning: trembling and shaking
Example: Quivering when she came out of the chilly water; the swimmer decided that it was too cold to swim after all.

Word: Quixotic
Meaning: unrealistic and impractical
Example: Although Jack’s plan for killing the giant was quixotic; it was the village’s only hope.

Word: Quizzical
Meaning: suggesting confusion or disbelief
Example: Because I am a male; the doctor gave me a quizzical look when I told him I was pregnant.

Word: Quondam
Meaning: former; previous
Example: The quondam beauty queen was much more exotic than the one currently being crowned.

Word: Quorum
Meaning: the needed number of people to be present at a meeting in order to conduct business
Example: When Congress met to discuss the issue at hand; they realized that they would postpone the session until a quorum was met.

Word: Quota
Meaning: a goal or quantity that is assigned
Example: Each seamstress has a quota of fifty blankets that must be sewn each day.

Word: Quotidian
Meaning: everyday events that are normal and not that exciting
Example: As the days of celebration wore on; the formerly spectacular events began to seem more quotidian; and the king found himself yawning at the chariot races.

Word: Quotient
Meaning: the end of result of division
Example: The fun quotient reduced significantly when mom decided to tag along.

Word: Rabbi
Meaning: a religious scholar that teaches Jewish law
Example: As an assistant rabbi; the man was responsible for helping with the b’nai mitzvah program and teaching coming of age rituals to Jewish boys.

Word: Rabble
Meaning: a disorderly mob or crowd
Example: An angry rabble gathered outside of the courthouse and threw bottles at the mob on the other side of the street.

Word: Rabid 
Meaning: having excessive enthusiasm for something or someone
Example: The singer’s rabid fans have been known to dig through his trash.

Word: Racial
Meaning: related to race or ethnicity
Example: Racial jokes aimed at Hispanics offended the mostly Mexican audience.

Word: Racism
Meaning: prejudice and discriminatory actions towards others because of their ethnicity
Example: Racism during the Jim Crow era led to African Americans being banned from most public places.

Word: Racist
Meaning: someone who holds prejudiced beliefs or shows discriminatory behavior towards others of a certain race or ethnic background
Example: Racist protesters lined the city streets to protest the school integration of blacks and whites.

Word: Rack
Meaning: a stand or shelf used to hold or hang things
Example: A shoe rack and several small cubbies lined the walls of the classroom.

Word: Racket
Meaning: an unpleasantly loud and irritating noise
Example: Upstairs in the playroom; the loud children are making quite a racket.

Word: Racketeer
Meaning: a person who takes part in a fraudulent or dishonest business
Example: Implicated in at least 10 different fraudulent business deals; the racketeer is facing serious jail time.

Word: Racking
Meaning: tormenting; agonizing
Example: Making a racking noise up and down the halls of the haunted inn; the ghost continued to terrorize all who dared to stay the night.

Word: Raconteur
Meaning: one recognized as being a talented teller of stories
Example: The kindergarten teacher was an excellent raconteur who had no problem keeping her young charges engaged with her stories.

Word: Racy
Meaning: describes something exciting and slightly shocking because it is sexual
Example: Racy pictures of the celebrity showed up in the tabloid; embarrassing her husband and children.

Word: Radar
Meaning: a device that uses radio waves to locate something
Example: Bringing a radar along on his latest trip; the fisherman hoped that he would be able to use the device to find schools of catfish.

Word: Radiance
Meaning: glowing brightness
Example: Pure radiance shined through the water as the sun’s rays caused the waves to glisten.

Word: Radiant
Meaning: shining with happiness
Example: The bride looked radiant as she walked down the aisle.

Word: Radiate
Meaning: to give off
Example: Hopefully the small heater will radiate enough warmth to heat the room.

Word: Radiation 
Meaning: energy spread or radiated through waves; particles; or rays
Example: Although the explosion was contained inside of the plant; the chemical radiation can still spread within a thirty-mile radius.

Word: Radical
Meaning: an idea that is different from traditional views
Example: The conservative church leaders were not interested in hearing any radical religious ideas.

Word: Radius
Meaning: the circular area or distance limited by the sweep of a line
Example: Because I prefer working close to home; I only applied for positions within a ten mile radius of my apartment.

Word: Raffish
Meaning: unconventional and unacceptable yet intriguing
Example: The raffish woman drew everyone’s attention when she crashed the wedding.

Word: Raffle
Meaning: a lottery-style game where people buy tickets for a prize and one or more tickets is drawn at random
Example: During the Farmerville County Fair; people purchased tickets for a raffle to win a prize-winning chicken only if their ticket was drawn.

Word: Raft
Meaning: a flat floating structure for travelling across water that is often made from wood or logs tiled together
Example: The castaway used logs and vine to create a raft that he hoped would help him get off the island.

Word: Rafters
Meaning: internal beams extending from the eaves to the peak of a building’s roof
Example: The cluttered garage was packed all the way up to the rafters; with boxes sitting on some of the top beams.

Word: Rafters
Meaning: sloping wooden beams that support a roof
Example: The wooden rafters holding up the tilting roof up were the last bit of structure still standing after the tornado ripped the building apart.

Word: Rage
Meaning: an intense anger that is extremely difficult to manage
Example: Full of rage; the man slammed his fist through the car windshield.

Word: Ragged
Meaning: tattered and worn
Example: An old; ragged flag showed its tattered stripes as it ripped back and forth in the wind.

Word: Raging
Meaning: showing power and intensity
Example: A raging storm swooped into the area; destroying homes with its intensity.

Word: Raid
Meaning: To invade or search
Example: The successful raid into the nearby country was a military success for the army.

Word: Rail
Meaning: a bar or series of bars that serves as a fence or barrier
Example: A rail was placed on the outside of the cruise ship to keep passengers from going overboard.

Word: Raillery
Meaning: good-natured bantering
Example: While many people think the brothers are arguing; they’re usually just engaging in some fun raillery.

Word: Railroad
Meaning: a steel track along which trains carrying rail cars travel
Example: Moving down the railroad tracks; the train’s whistle let out a loud toot.

Word: Raiment 
Meaning: garments
Example: The shelter provides housing; food; and raiment for people in need.

Word: Rain
Meaning: water that condenses form water vapor and then falls from the sky in tiny droplets
Example: Damp rain splashing down onto the children’s faces was just what was needed on a hot day.

Word: Raincheck
Meaning: a promise that something that was supposed to occur now will be accepted later
Example: I know I promised you a dance; but something has come up so I’ll have to take a raincheck.

Word: Rainfall
Meaning: the amount of precipitation falling in an area during a specific time
Example: Rainfall across the region over the past 24 hours has ranged from 2 to 3 inches.

Word: Rainwater
Meaning: water that has fallen from the sky as rain
Example: Rainwater was collected in a bucket and used to water the flowers a day or so after a storm.

Word: Raise
Meaning: to lift something up
Example: The store agreed not to raise gas prices if other stores in the area kept them low as well.

Word: Rajah
Meaning: an Indian king or prince
Example: The film describes the life of an Indian rajah who gave up the throne for love.

Word: Rake
Meaning: to gather things together into a pile
Example: During the fall; we must rake all the leaves and acorns from the oak tree into big piles for disposal.

Word: Rakish
Meaning: filled with a nonchalant attitude that is often displayed in an unconventional manner
Example: Josh’s rakish personality leads him to believe it is okay to have six girlfriends at one time.

Word: Rally
Meaning: to come together in support
Example: Soldiers in the regime would rally around one another after every completed mission.

Word: Ram
Meaning: to butt or strike something
Example: The police began to ram the door with a piece of steel in order to force their way in.

Word: Ramadan
Meaning: the holy month when Muslims fast and try to perform good deeds
Example: Observing Ramadan from dawn until dusk; Muslims do not eat during this point of their holy month.

Word: Ramble
Meaning: to talk aimlessly
Example: Because my math professor tends to ramble on; I often fall asleep in class.

Word: Rambling
Meaning: speech or writing that is long-winded and confusing
Example: Theresa stopped reading the rambling letter from her jailhouse lover after several minutes of being confused.

Word: Rambunctious
Meaning: hyper and energetic
Example: The classroom looked like a war zone after the rambunctious kindergartners ran around knocking things onto the ground.

Word: Ramification
Meaning: a change that makes a situation more complicated
Example: Jason was shocked when he learned the ramification of his cheating was immediate expulsion from the university.

Word: Ramify
Meaning: intensify or complicate
Example: As the group’s questions began to ramify and thwart the event; the author began to think a Q and A session might better serve their interest.

Word: Ramose
Meaning: having many branches
Example: The ramose oak was covered in moss; with the thick peat covering the tree’s many branches.

Word: Rampage
Meaning: to rush through an area in a reckless or violent manner
Example: Shoppers went on a rampage through the mall; knocking over racks and pushing each other down.

Word: Rampant
Meaning: not restrained
Example: During the riots; crime was rampant in the streets.

Word: Rampart
Meaning: a fortified wall or embankment that serves as a protective barrier
Example: Soldiers formed a rampart around the city in order to protect Jericho from being overtaken.

Word: Ramping
Meaning: decreasing or increasing in volume; amount; or rate
Example: Since the demand for the product is now low; production efforts are ramping down.

Word: Ramrod
Meaning: a metal bar that is used to push explosive material down into the barrel of some old-fashioned guns
Example: A cleaning jag is added to the end of the ramrod to make cleansing of the gun barrel easier.

Word: Ramshackle 
Meaning: worn down; in disrepair
Example: I will be surprised if your ramshackle car can make it out of the driveway.

Word: Rancid
Meaning: being foul in taste or smell
Example: The oil went rancid because it was overly exposed to sunlight.

Word: Rancor
Meaning: a feeling of hate or anger
Example: Even though my mother despised her twin sister; she always spoke about her without rancor.

Word: Rancorous
Meaning: bitter or resentful
Example: Mr. Knightly is a rancorous old man who is always unhappy and seemingly angry at everyone; even if they are strangers.

Word: Random
Meaning: accidental; by chance
Example: Corrupt police officers conducted random stop-and-frisk stays throughout the city; targeting people unsystematically.

Word: Rang
Meaning: caused a device with a bell to ring by striking it
Example: The children rang the doorbell and then ran away as soon as someone answered the call.

Word: Range
Meaning: an assortment of things that are of the same general type
Example: A range of emotions filled the heart of the woman who had recently lost her husband and given birth to their child.

Word: Rangeland
Meaning: an open piece of land where animals graze
Example: The forage on the rangeland was dwindling; leaving little for the cattle to eat on during the winter.

Word: Ranging
Meaning: varying between
Example: The teacher has many students in each class; ranging from 25 to 30 per section.

Word: Rank
Meaning: foul smelling; pungent
Example: After a day of being left out to sour; the rank milk had curdled and begun to smell.

Word: Rankle
Meaning: to cause bitterness or irritation
Example: The fact the plane is leaving two hours late is certainly going to rankle the passengers.

Word: Ransack
Meaning: a frantic hunt for an item that leaves chaos and/or damage in its wake
Example: The thieves continued to ransack the house until they came across the shoebox stuffed with money.

Word: Ransacking
Meaning: to search through something hurriedly or carelessly
Example: Ransacking the place; the burglars threw everything around as they tried to steal all the valuables from the home.

Word: Ransom
Meaning: something that is paid to free an individual who is being held as a hostage
Example: In some cases you can pay the ransom and still not have your loved one returned.

Word: Rant
Meaning: an act complaining or speaking about something in a loud; lengthy; angry; emotional manner
Example: The woman’s irate Facebook rant was not representative of her character and was eventually taken down.

Word: Rap
Meaning: a sharp knock or blow made quickly
Example: A sharp rap at the door startled the nervous housewife who wasn’t expecting any visitors.

Word: Rapacious
Meaning: aggressively greedy
Example: Because of its rapacious appetite; the shark is often considered to be more of an eating machine than a living creature.

Word: Rapid-fire
Meaning: describes something coming quickly; one after the other
Example: Rapid-fire questioning during round three of the quiz bowl happened so quickly that most of the contestants became nervous.

Word: Rapid
Meaning: moving swiftly
Example: Thank you for your rapid response to my question.

Word: Rapidity
Meaning: quickness; swiftness
Example: Mashing the buttons with great rapidity; the toddler quickly locked his mother’s phone with his insistent pressing.

Word: Rapier
Meaning: a long slender blade that has two edges and a protective ornament for the hand
Example: In fencing; I often use a rapier because it has a long blade that makes it perfect for thrusting.

Word: Rapine
Meaning: the taking of another’s property by force
Example: To prevent rapine during the war; many people hid their most valuable possessions.

Word: Rapport
Meaning: a pleasant association or relationship
Example: The rapport I have with my therapist allows me to tell her my deepest thoughts.

Word: Rapprochement
Meaning: an agreement reached by opposing parties
Example: After the warring countries reached a rapprochement; things in the area are now more politically calm.

Word: Rapscallion
Meaning: a person who is mischievous
Example: The young; Irish rapscallion spent most of his first days in New York looking for something to get into.

Word: Rapt
Meaning: totally enthralled
Example: The toddler watched the cartoon in rapt attention.

Word: Raptorial
Meaning: predatory; preying on others
Example: The raptorial bird flew over the field looking for a small rodent that it could devour.

Word: Rapture
Meaning: a mood of great joy or love
Example: John is a spiritual man who claims he experienced rapture during his baptism.

Word: Rapturous
Meaning: displaying immense enthusiasm or joy
Example: The singer entered the sold-out concert hall to rapturous applause.

Word: Rare
Meaning: uncommon
Example: The coin was a rare edition and was not found in many collections around the world.

Word: Rarefaction
Meaning: the lessening of density in a substance
Example: The rarefaction of air occurs as it rises higher in the atmosphere; where it loses much of its density.

Word: Rarefied
Meaning: relevant to only a select group
Example: The rarefied book was written in an ancient language that could only be read by a few linguists and historians.

Word: Rarefy
Meaning: to convert into something less thick
Example: The humidifier will rarefy the room by putting moisture in the air.

Word: Rarely
Meaning: not often; seldom
Example: I rarely use my home office but end up working from my couch instead.

Word: Rarity
Meaning: infrequency; uncommonness
Example: It is a rarity to see my grandmother at family functions since she prefers to stay in the house most of the time.

Word: Rascal
Meaning: a person who is always getting into trouble or mischief
Example: My grandpa often describes my little brother as a rascal who can’t be still.

Word: Rash
Meaning: acting without thinking
Example: The boy acted in a rash manner and didn’t consider the consequences of driving under the influence.

Word: Rasp
Meaning: an unpleasant sound; such as a rough surface being rubbed
Example: The nasal rasp of the woman’s voice irritated those listening to her speak.

Word: Raspy
Meaning: hoarse or harsh; usually in regards to a person’s voice
Example: My sore throat made my voice sound raspy to my friends; who knew I was sick the moment they heard my hoarse words.

Word: Rate
Meaning: charge or fee
Example: My attorney’s rate is much higher than other lawyers because of his excellent reputation and years of experience.

Word: Rather
Meaning: quite; to a slight degree
Example: It is rather cold outside; so I should wear a jacket when heading to work.

Word: Ratify
Meaning: to officially go on the record as approving something
Example: Unfortunately; half of the legislators refuse to ratify a bill that would increase funding for public schools.

Word: Ratio
Meaning: proportion or percentage
Example: The ratio of boys to girls in the classroom was much higher than last year.

Word: Ratiocination 
Meaning: the method of precise thinking
Example: The detective used his ratiocination to determine the killer’s identity.

Word: Ration
Meaning: the portion that is distributed
Example: I put the dog’s daily ration in a bag for the pet sitter.

Word: Rational
Meaning: centered on reasoning or logic
Example: I cannot have a rational discussion with my delusional aunt.

Word: Rationale
Meaning: an explanation given to justify something
Example: The judge asked the young man to explain his rationale for stealing a police car.

Word: Rationalism
Meaning: the practice of basing opinions and actions on reason and knowledge instead of religious belief or emotion
Example: The scientist insisted that religions should be swept aside and replaced with rationalism.

Word: Rationalize
Meaning: to justify negative behavior
Example: When he could not rationalize why he stayed out past curfew; the teen’s parents took his car for a month.

Word: Rattle
Meaning: to shake or clatter
Example: Aftershocks from the earthquake were strong enough to rattle the china in the kitchen cabinet.

Word: Raucous
Meaning: behaving in a noisy and disorderly way
Example: Raucous but fun is how they always describe her birthday parties.

Word: Ravage
Meaning: to destroy
Example: The category five hurricane will ravage the city.

Word: Rave
Meaning: to speak wildly and incoherently; as though insane
Example: The hermit would rave at anyone that happened upon his home in the woods; never making sense or saying anything reasonable.

Word: Ravel
Meaning: to untangle or unravel and object or situation
Example: As more and more facts came to light; the truth about who murdered the butler began to ravel.

Word: Ravenous
Meaning: very hungry
Example: As a ravenous carnivore; Adam was sure that he would be able to finish the 4-pound steak in an hour.

Word: Ravine
Meaning: a tiny yet deep valley
Example: As the driver lost control on the dirt road; the car suddenly headed into the ravine.

Word: Ravings
Meaning: crazy; irrational statements that have no meaning
Example: The ravings of a madwoman; the writing in the notebook made no logical sense.

Word: Ravishing
Meaning: extremely beautiful
Example: The groom thought the bride looked ravishing in her wedding dress.

Word: Ray
Meaning: a narrow beam of light
Example: A ray of light shined out of the flashlight and directly onto the suspect.

Word: Razbliuto
Meaning: used to describe the feeling of having once loved something but no longer feeling the same way about
Example: My feeling of razbliuto was for my past love; who I once felt great passion for but now only detested.

Word: Raze
Meaning: to demolish
Example: As part of his campaign promise; the mayoral candidate pledged to raze all neglected properties that were unfit for human life.

Word: Reachable
Meaning: accessible or able to be achieved; reached
Example: Twenty thousand sales is a reachable target that we should be able to meet this month.

Word: React
Meaning: to respond or behave in a certain way
Example: We hope my brother will react in an excited way when we yell “surprise!”

Word: Reactant
Meaning: a substance that is there at the beginning of a chemical reaction
Example: Hydrogen is a reactant which when combined with oxygen can make water.

Word: Reactionary 
Meaning: against change
Example: My grandmother is described as reactionary because she refuses to use modern technologies like microwaves and mobile phones.

Word: Readily
Meaning: willingly and without doubt
Example: My empty stomach readily received the food I ate for lunch.

Word: Readiness
Meaning: the act of being prepared and equipped
Example: The future college student’s readiness to attend college could be seen since she had already paid all of the tuition and packed her bags.

Word: Readout
Meaning: the output of a computer in readable form
Example: The ATM spit out a readout that told the customer how much money she had in her account.

Word: Reaffirm
Meaning: to state something again
Example: By transferring to the Middletown Baptist Church; I had to reaffirm my faith in front of the congregation.

Word: Real
Meaning: genuine and authentic
Example: The woman in the market is selling real designer purses and not the knockoff versions.

Word: Realign
Meaning: to bring back into alignment; to restore to a new or correct position
Example: Doctors worked to relieve his shoulder pain and realign the joint.

Word: Realism
Meaning: a realistic approach of accepting things as they are and dealing with them accordingly
Example: The scientist always approached his work with a sense of realism and refused to let emotions lead him.

Word: Realist
Meaning: a person who accepts the true nature of a situation rather than an idealized version
Example: As a realist; the Prima prides herself on being a rational thinker that can solve any problem that arrives.

Word: Realistic
Meaning: based on what is real; sensible; or practical
Example: The actress gave such a realistic performance that it was hard to believe she wasn’t the actual character from the book.

Word: Reality
Meaning: the true situation exactly as it exists
Example: The reality of the family’s poverty meant they didn’t have much food or water.

Word: Realization
Meaning: the action of becoming informed or aware
Example: The realization shocked me into silence when I figured out my boyfriend was stumbling through a marriage proposal.

Word: Realize
Meaning: to understand or become aware of something
Example: The distracted driver didn’t realize the puppy was on the road and barely missed hitting him with her car.

Word: Realm
Meaning: a subject or area in which an individual has curiosity; experience; and/or knowledge
Example: In recent years; many technological innovations have deepened my interest in the realm of computer science.

Word: Reap
Meaning: to harvest by cutting
Example: With the invention of the thresher; farmers were able to reap their crops faster than before.

Word: Rear
Meaning: the back part of something
Example: Working out almost daily; the shapely woman tried to sweat off her rear end.

Word: Reason
Meaning: cause or basis
Example: There is no reason to clean the house because it is already spotless.

Word: Reason
Meaning: a cause or basis
Example: The student became very sick with the flu and had to miss school for that reason.

Word: Reasonable
Meaning: sensible and rational
Example: After so many silly answers; the teacher was happy that her top student gave a reasonable response to the question.

Word: Reasoning
Meaning: thinking; figuring
Example: When the couple fell in love; all logical reasoning flew out the window.

Word: Reassurance
Meaning: words spoken or actions taken to make a person feel better
Example: After I lost the contest; my husband spoke words of reassurance so I wouldn’t doubt my ability.

Word: Reassure
Meaning: to say or do something to remove fear or doubt
Example: The husband tried to reassure his wife that he loved her no matter what.

Word: Reassuring
Meaning: to make someone feel less afraid or doubtful through comfort and support
Example: In a reassuring tone; the doctor assured the patient that he would make it out of surgery.

Word: Reawakening
Meaning: the renewal of a feeling or interest in something
Example: Once he was treated for depression; the patient experienced an emotional reawakening and began to enjoy life again.

Word: Rebarbative
Meaning: unpleasant and unattractive
Example: The unpleasant waitress’s rebarbative stopped her from getting many tips at the café.

Word: Rebate
Meaning: an portion of money returned to you after the purchase of something
Example: The car dealership offered the potential buyer 6k back in the form of a rebate if he chose to buy the vehicle.

Word: Rebel
Meaning: to rise up in a revolt against something
Example: Members of the group decided to rebel after seeing that no one was listening to their ideas.

Word: Rebellion
Meaning: an attempt to replace one form of government with another or an organized act of defiance against authority
Example: The plantation owner killed the leader of the slave rebellion to deter other slaves from being disobedient.

Word: Rebellious
Meaning: unruly and wild with behavior and actions
Example: The rebellious teen refused to listen to his parents and did what he wanted to do.

Word: Rebirth
Meaning: to be born again or revival of something to take place again
Example: After suffering from the Civil War; the two sides came back together in a rebirth so the nation could function united as it once did.

Word: Rebound
Meaning: to bounce back off of something
Example: When the basketball players shoot the ball; they are hoping it will go in and not rebound off the backboard.

Word: Rebuff
Meaning: to turn down or refuse
Example: Since your offer does not benefit me; I will have to rebuff it and walk away empty-handed.

Word: Rebuke
Meaning: to criticize sharply or a sharp criticism
Example: Good parents praise their children more than they rebuke them.

Word: Rebut 
Meaning: to deny something by giving reasons it cannot be true
Example: The defense attorney tried hard to rebut the prosecutor’s accusation about the defendant.

Word: Rebuttal
Meaning: an account that is written or stated to contradict another idea
Example: Since the defense attorney did not have a rebuttal to the prosecutor’s statement; he was unable to make the jury believe his client’s alibi.

Word: Recalcitrant
Meaning: stubborn
Example: Despite being offered treats by his parents; the little boy was still recalcitrant about doing his homework.

Word: Recall
Meaning: to call up a memory
Example: Because the woman didn’t want her abusive husband arrested; she swore she couldn’t recall her attacker.

Word: Recant
Meaning: to retract a public statement
Example: After being convicted of perjury; the witness had to recant her remarks against the defendant.

Word: Recap
Meaning: a review of something
Example: The teacher gave us a recap of everything we had learned over the semester the day before the final exam.

Word: Recapitulate
Meaning: to review or repeat
Example: At the start of each class; the professor will recapitulate yesterday’s lecture.

Word: Recast
Meaning: to allocate the parts of a play to different actors than originally intended
Example: The actors in the play were recast once the director realized that they were not in the best roles possible.

Word: Recede
Meaning: to go back
Example: If you look closely at George’s hair; you can see where his hairline has started to recede.

Word: Receding
Meaning: to move back or further away
Example: Phil wears a hat whenever he is in public to hide his receding hairline.

Word: Recent
Meaning: new; latest
Example: Recent weather reports show that hurricane Sydney is still headed our way.

Word: Recently
Meaning: lately; not long ago
Example: Recently; several children have asked to join our book club.

Word: Receptacle
Meaning: an item used to hold something
Example: All trash should be placed in the garbage receptacle.

Word: Reception
Meaning: a party thrown for a special occasion
Example: The menu for the reception included finger foods; punch; and a two-tiered cake.

Word: Receptive
Meaning: ready to receive new ideas or concepts
Example: Every Friday night; Ben hits the club scene in hopes of finding a woman who will be receptive to his charm.

Word: Recess
Meaning: a short break
Example: After a short recess; the judge will return and decide on the case.

Word: Recession
Meaning: a time period in which economic movement is exceptionally slow
Example: During the recession; many individuals found it difficult to pay their bills.

Word: Recessive
Meaning: going in a backwards direction
Example: When my teenager becomes upset; she resorts to the recessive behavior of a small child and starts sucking her thumb.

Word: Recidivism
Meaning: the act of repeatedly committing crimes
Example: In the state; the rate of recidivism has decreased as noted by the fact fewer criminals are returning to prison.

Word: Recidivist
Meaning: one who falls back into prior habits; especially criminal habits; a repeat offender
Example: The recidivist drunk driver knew that the judge would throw the book at him.

Word: Recipe
Meaning: a set of instructions for preparing a dish
Example: Mixing up my grandmother’s famous chocolate cake for the fiftieth; I no longer needed to look at the recipe.

Word: Recipient
Meaning: one who receives; such as one who receives money or goods
Example: Michael is the recipient of a Nobel Peace prize because of the discovery he made in the field of medicine.

Word: Reciprocal
Meaning: shared; felt; or shown by both sides
Example: Unfortunately; I have to tell my best friend his romantic feelings towards me are not reciprocal.

Word: Reciprocate
Meaning: to pay back in return
Example: Because you helped me move; I will definitely reciprocate the favor when you relocate.

Word: Reciprocity 
Meaning: the state of having an agreement in which actions and feelings are mutually exchanged
Example: Because my best friend and I have mutual reciprocity; we always look out for each other.

Word: Recite
Meaning: to repeat something aloud; often before an audience
Example: Alex was expelled from public school when he publicly refused to recite the pledge of allegiance.

Word: Reckless
Meaning: unconcerned to danger or the consequences; careless
Example: The reckless driver did not stop at the red light.

Word: Reckon
Meaning: to anticipate a specific thing will occur
Example: From the loud cheers; it’s obvious the local fans reckon their team will win the game.

Word: Reclaim
Meaning: to retrieve or recover something that was once lost
Example: The invaders fought with the country’s soldiers to reclaim the land that belonged to them so long ago.

Word: Reclamation
Meaning: the act of recovering or retrieving something
Example: When the car owner defaulted on his loan; the bank hired a company to handle the reclamation of his vehicle.

Word: Recline
Meaning: to tilt back or lie down
Example: Cramped airline space made it difficult for the passenger to recline her seat back.

Word: Recliner
Meaning: a lounger or adjustable seat where the back of the chair can move forwards or backwards
Example: If someone got rid of my dad’s favorite recliner in the den; he would never be able to find a place to sit back and relax ever again.

Word: Recluse
Meaning: a person who lives alone and avoids other people; a hermit
Example: Despite her reputation as a recluse; Samantha held regular gatherings in her home to entertain close friends.

Word: Recognition
Meaning: acknowledgement; identification; awareness
Example: The biggest form of gratitude we can extend to the fallen soldiers is our recognition that they gave their lives so that others might live.

Word: Recognizance
Meaning: a bond entered before a court of record or judge
Example: After posting a $20;000 bond; the man was released by the judge on his own recognizance.

Word: Recognize
Meaning: to know and remember (someone or something) because of previous knowledge or experience
Example: Bold and daring; Harriet Tubman helped over 300 slaves escape to freedom through the Underground Railroad.

Word: Recoil 
Meaning: to quickly move back
Example: Seeing the snake made me recoil in fear.

Word: Recollect
Meaning: to remember
Example: Racing frantically throughout the house; the frazzled woman tried to recollect where she had placed her car keys.

Word: Recommence
Meaning: to continue or start again
Example: The construction will recommence after the hurricane leaves the area.

Word: Recommend
Meaning: to suggest or advise
Example: We do not recommend going to the restaurant if you are in a rush since the service is rather slow.

Word: Recommendation
Meaning: advice or suggestion
Example: The governor promised to make a recommendation on the issue within a week but we are still waiting to hear back.

Word: Recompense
Meaning: to reward or repay (someone) for something done or given
Example: There is no recompense I would accept in exchange for the life of my child who was recently killed in a hit-and-run accident.

Word: Reconcile
Meaning: to restore a friendly relationship
Example: After being separated for several months; the couple decided to attempt to reconcile for the emotional wellbeing of their distraught children.

Word: Reconciliation
Meaning: the restoration of good relations between individuals; groups; or territories who had become divided for some reason
Example: If the reconciliation between the two Indian tribes takes place; there will finally be peace in the area.

Word: Recondite
Meaning: not understood or known by many people
Example: Since I do not have a law degree; I find it hard to understand the recondite terms of the contract.

Word: Reconnaissance
Meaning: a survey or observation to gain information
Example: Because the reconnaissance team has discovered bombs up ahead; we will sleep here tonight and allow our explosives’ unit time to detonate the devices.

Word: Reconnoiter
Meaning: to survey a place or situation for planning purposes
Example: Before the event; we will reconnoiter the venue so we can design the evening’s seating arrangements.

Word: Reconsider
Meaning: to think again or reassess
Example: The woman hoped her husband would reconsider his decision to divorce her after a nice weekend in Maine.

Word: Reconstruct
Meaning: to rebuild or renovate
Example: Piecing together the night’s events; the detectives tried to reconstruct what really happened.

Word: Reconstruction
Meaning: rebuilding; renovation
Example: Reconstruction of the ancient building took many years and millions of dollars’ worth of supplies and contracting fees.

Word: Reconvene
Meaning: to come back together for a purpose
Example: We will reconvene after lunch to vote on the proposed amendment.

Word: Record
Meaning: evidence or documentation
Example: Because there is no record of the purchase having taken place; the product cannot be returned to the store.

Word: Recount
Meaning: the action of retelling or recounting something
Example: When the results of the vote were too close to identify a winner; the candidates requested a recount.

Word: Recoup
Meaning: to earn back
Example: My husband is staying at the gambling table because he wants to recoup his losses.

Word: Recourse
Meaning: options or assistance during a difficult period or situation
Example: Before hospitals; midwives were often the only recourse for expectant mothers.

Word: Recover
Meaning: to regain possession of something lost or taken
Example: The police were able to recover the woman’s stolen purse after they caught and arrested the thief that had taken it.

Word: Recoverable
Meaning: the ability to retrieve something back that was once occupied
Example: After the jewelry was stolen from the hotel’s safe; securing the doors so no one could leave the hotel made it more likely for the jewelry to be recoverable.

Word: Recovery
Meaning: return to a normal state
Example: The CEO had high hopes that a new marketing program would bring recovery to the struggling business.

Word: Recreant
Meaning: unfaithful or disloyal to a duty; belief; or cause
Example: The recreant police officer was brought up on charges of disobeying orders.

Word: Recreation
Meaning: activities that are done for enjoyment
Example: The activities that I prefer to engage in for recreation include reading; writing; and video games; though many people claim those don’t go together.

Word: Recrimination
Meaning: an accusation made against an accuser
Example: When the politician heard of his rival’s accusation; he made a recrimination as a form of retaliation.

Word: Recrudescence
Meaning: a return of something after a period of inactivity or abatement
Example: I thought my shingles outbreak subsided; but I experienced a recrudescence of the virus.

Word: Recruit
Meaning: to get someone to join something
Example: My business is looking to recruit new personnel to join our team.

Word: Recruitment
Meaning: the process of finding people to work for a company or become a new member of a group
Example: As crime continues to rise; recruitment of city police officers has become a top priority for human resources.

Word: Rectangle
Meaning: a quadrilateral made up of four straight lines and four right angles
Example: The pizza maker used dough to form another rectangle and stacked each crust in a quadrilateral pan.

Word: Rectification
Meaning: the process of correcting or making something right
Example: A rectification letter was sent out to the client in an attempt to smooth things over.

Word: Rectify
Meaning: to correct an issue
Example: The puzzled doctor could not identify the proper medicine to rectify his patient’s medical condition.

Word: Rectilinear
Meaning: having many straight lines
Example: A street grid of rectilinear buildings showed the many straight lines that made up the structure.

Word: Rectitude
Meaning: behavior that is correct and moral
Example: Jake’s rectitude prevented him from lying to the police about his actions.

Word: Recumbent
Meaning: a resting or reclining state
Example: When we returned home; the exhausted babysitter was asleep and recumbent on the couch.

Word: Recuperate
Meaning: to obtain something that has been lost; usually one’s good health or a financial stake
Example: Hopefully Jean will recuperate quickly and be able to leave the hospital soon.

Word: Recur
Meaning: to happen or appear again
Example: Even with chemotherapy; the cancer could recur and wreck my life again.

Word: Recurrent
Meaning: happening or recurring time after time
Example: Being late to work was a recurrent issue for him; so they had to terminate his employment.

Word: Recurring 
Meaning: happening or occurring frequently; with repetition
Example: The woman was happy that her recurring cancer was in remission for a third time.

Word: Recursive
Meaning: pertaining to a rule or procedure that can be applied repeatedly
Example: A recursive ratio must be used in problems where the pattern repeats over and over.

Word: Recuse
Meaning: to declare oneself disqualified to act as a judge; or remove oneself from participation to avoid a conflict of interest
Example: The judge had to recuse herself from the case when the defendant turned out to be her cousin.

Word: Recycle
Meaning: to reprocess waste into reusable materials
Example: Research shows people in the U.S. only recycle a small amount of the reusable packaging purchased.

Word: Red herring
Meaning: a believable distraction designed to mislead; often used in mystery novels
Example: Sherlock Holmes warned that if a case was solved too easily; it was likely a red herring that distracted the detectives from the real criminal.

Word: Red Tape
Meaning: excessive adherence to rules and formalities; especially in a public processes
Example: There is a lot of red tape involved in the law enforcement system; and it can take months to actually hold a trial for a criminal because of formalities.

Word: Red
Meaning: a color at the end of the spectrum that is representative of fire and blood
Example: A shiny red apple was placed on the professor’s desk at the beginning of class.

Word: Redact
Meaning: to edit or revise a document; removing certain information before publishing
Example: The editor had to redact what was private in the court documents before releasing it to the media.

Word: Redacted
Meaning: edited or revised a document; having removed certain information before publishing
Example: After he redacted the private inforamtion; the editor went back to make sure that no mistakes were made.

Word: Redaction
Meaning: the process of editing published material and removing information before it is released to the public
Example: This redaction allowed all three of the student’s papers to be pieced together and published as one theory.

Word: Redeem
Meaning: to exchange one thing for money or goods; to buy or pay off
Example: I save my coupons so that I can redeem them at the supermarket.

Word: Redemption 
Meaning: the act of earning something back
Example: Phillip prays his confession will earn him the redemption of a reduced prison sentence.

Word: Redintegrate
Meaning: to fully restore or reestablish
Example: The Alzheimer’s patient was able to redintegrate her memory of the entire song after hearing one note.

Word: Redistribute
Meaning: to share something out differently than before or to share it again
Example: The teacher will take up all the children’s school supplies and then redistribute them evenly once she has a final count.

Word: Redivivus
Meaning: reborn; revived
Example: New management breathed life into the failing business; changing the dead car dealership into a redivivus success.

Word: Redolent
Meaning: filled with a scent or odor
Example: The candy shop was redolent with the rich smell of chocolate.

Word: Redoubtable
Meaning: a difficult challenger or challenge
Example: Despite his intense workouts; the boxer was no match for his redoubtable competitor who held several title belts.

Word: Redound
Meaning: to result in; contribute to
Example: When I was on the brink of diabetes; my doctor suggested I eat a more well-rounded diet that would redound to my health.

Word: Redress
Meaning: to make something right or the payment for a wrong
Example: Kate demanded redress from the builder when her deck collapsed.

Word: Reduce
Meaning: to decrease
Example: Ways to reduce corporate waste in offices are being discussed by those that want to decrease spending.

Word: Reduction
Meaning: lessening; declining
Example: A reduction in government spending led to a financial surplus of over one million dollars.

Word: Reductive
Meaning: tending to present a subject or problem in a simplified form
Example: The interviewee’s answers were all reductive and to the point.

Word: Redundant
Meaning: something that is unnecessary
Example: My professor’s redundant speech consisted of him saying the same thing over and over again.

Word: Reef
Meaning: a ridge of material at or near the surface of the ocean
Example: The small reef will either scatter into the sand or the ridge will grow stronger overtime.

Word: Reek
Meaning: to have or give off a strong; unpleasant smell
Example: It was discovered that a gallon of milk had spilled all over the car; making it reek.

Word: Reel
Meaning: to lose balance or feel dizzy
Example: As I started to reel and feel faint; I realized my date had put something in my drink.

Word: Reevaluate
Meaning: to look at something again to assess it or appraise it’s worth properly
Example: The claims adjuster has to reevaluate the car’s value to see if It is worth fixing.

Word: Refectory
Meaning: a cafeteria or place where meals are served
Example: Lunch in the hospital refectory is served from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. and dinner begins at 5:00 p.m.

Word: Refer
Meaning: to mention or allude to
Example: The secretive woman warned her fiancé not to refer to their upcoming elopement in front of her father.

Word: Referee
Meaning: an arbitrator or mediator
Example: Acting as a referee for her friends; the neutral seventh-grader tried to calm both sides.

Word: Reference
Meaning: mentioning or alluding to something while speaking or writing
Example: Reference to a bomb in the shady email set all of the security members on high alert.

Word: Referendum
Meaning: a public vote on a particular issue
Example: The employees were asked to vote on a referendum about the company insurance plan.

Word: Referral
Meaning: a recommendation to an appropriate specialist or agency
Example: The woman’s skin condition worsened; leading her dermatologist office to give a referral to a psoriasis clinic.

Word: Referral
Meaning: the an act of sending someone to a person or place where what is needed can be obtained
Example: The doctor’s office sent a referral to the surgeon so that the patient could see the specialist.

Word: Refine
Meaning: to improve or make better
Example: Taking each step carefully; the dancer made an extra effort to refine any sloppy movements.

Word: Refined
Meaning: elegant and cultured in appearance and behavior
Example: The refined princess practiced eating her pea soup without slurping.

Word: Refinement
Meaning: improvement and fine-tuning of something by way of small changes
Example: The ballerina worked on refinement of her dancing skills and was able to do several new turns by the end of the semester.

Word: Refinery
Meaning: A factory or plant where a crude substance is converted into things that are more useful
Example: At the local refinery; units of crude oil are separated crude into various products.

Word: Reflect
Meaning: to deeply or carefully think about something
Example: Before choosing a vacation spot; the family decided to reflect upon their choices.

Word: Reflectance
Meaning: a measure of the ability of a surface to reflect light
Example: During the science experiment; the students tried to measure the reflectance of each object by shining light on its surface.

Word: Reflection
Meaning: a replicated likeness or image
Example: Staring at his reflection in the pond; the vain Narcissus fell in love with his own image.

Word: Reflective
Meaning: thinking carefully about something
Example: When I was faced with a difficult decision; I was very reflective before I made my choice.

Word: Reflex
Meaning: a spontaneous reaction or response
Example: Every time I brush; my gag reflex kicks in and I spontaneously heave.

Word: Reflexively
Meaning: automatically; instinctively
Example: Jumping reflexively; the quick acting pedestrian was able to move out of the way of the speeding truck.

Word: Reform
Meaning: to make changes in something by removing or correcting faults; problems
Example: The school board was voting on reform that would change the grading system in the district.

Word: Reformation
Meaning: the act; or process of making changes in something by removing or correcting faults; problems
Example: The city’s reformation of the bill allowed the citizens to have designated street parking.

Word: Reformatory
Meaning: an alternative to jail or prison where minors are sent for committing a crime
Example: Both boys were shipped off to a reformatory for naughty children.

Word: Reformer
Meaning: a person who makes changes to something in order to make it better
Example: The president tried to present himself as a reformer who will bring the country back to greatness.

Word: Refract
Meaning: to make a ray of light change directions upon entry
Example: Sunlight will refract when it goes through a window; changing directions just slightly as the glass redirects it.

Word: Refraction
Meaning: the twisting or bending of light as it travels from one agent to another agent
Example: We observed refraction when we turned our flashlights upon the cloudy lake.

Word: Refraction
Meaning: the bending of a ray when it passes at an angle from one medium into another in which its speed is different
Example: When light rays hit the water in the cup; refraction occurred and made the straw look as if it was bent.

Word: Refractory
Meaning: not responsive or difficult to manage
Example: Because the prisoner acts in a refractory manner; he is accompanied by four guards whenever he leaves his cell.

Word: Refrain
Meaning: to abstain from making a move
Example: To avoid a punishment; I am going to refrain from talking back to my mother.

Word: Refresh
Meaning: to revive or regenerate something
Example: A hot shower was enough to refresh the officer after a long day on the job.

Word: Refreshment
Meaning: a light drink or snack
Example:  A refreshment tray filled with light snacks was served to the hungry party guests.

Word: Refrigerator
Meaning: a rectangular appliance that keeps food and drink cold while storing
Example: A refrigerator was placed in the classroom to keep the teacher’s drinks cool while she works.

Word: Refuge
Meaning: a place that offers protection or serves as an escape
Example: Our mountain cottage is a refuge from the ills of the city.

Word: Refugee
Meaning: a person seeking protection in another country
Example: After being raped several times; the refugee fled to a neighboring country.

Word: Refulgent
Meaning: gleaming; shining excessively bright
Example: When the beauty queen accepted her crown; she had a refulgent smile on her face.

Word: Refund
Meaning: a reimbursement of money spent
Example: A monetary refund could not be returned to the customer; but a free gift card in the amount spent was given.

Word: Refurbish
Meaning: to rebuild or replenish; to restore to original (or better) working order and appearance
Example: My dad’s hobby is buying classic cars so he can refurbish them.

Word: Refusal
Meaning: the act of showing unwillingness to do something
Example: The driver’s refusal to take a breathalyzer test resulted in the officers growing even more suspicious.

Word: Refuse
Meaning: to decline or reject
Example: After the puppy continued to refuse to eat; the owners decided a visit to the vet might be in order.

Word: Refutable
Meaning: something that can be proved wrong or erroneous
Example: The solid theory is not refutable by any disproving scientific evidence.

Word: Refute
Meaning: to prove wrong by argument or evidence
Example: The evidence provided by the prosecutor will refute the defendant’s claim of innocence.

Word: Regain
Meaning: to recover or get something back
Example: The only way the man could regain his wife’s trust was to make better decisions consistently.

Word:  Regal 
Meaning: of noteworthy impressiveness
Example: The king’s crown gave him a regal air.

Word: Regale
Meaning: to please someone
Example: The chef hoped his meal would regale the food critic.

Word: Regalia
Meaning: special clothes and decorations; used at official ceremonies or occasions
Example: The Veterans Day parade included many members of the military in their regalia.

Word: Regality
Meaning: belonging to a king or queen
Example: The vintage wedding gown was fit for a queen; dripping with regality and class.

Word: Regard
Meaning: to hold (a person or thing) in respect or admiration
Example: Although I don’t always show it; I regard my mother-in-law as a woman of wisdom.

Word: Regardless
Meaning: despite the circumstance or conditions
Example: Regardless of the weather; I plan on having my birthday party outside tomorrow.

Word: Regency
Meaning: the official amount of time a government rules
Example: Under the regency of Henry VIII; several of his wives were beheaded.

Word: Regenerate
Meaning: to revive or restore
Example: If they are destroyed; our earth’s forests will not be able to quickly regenerate themselves.

Word: Regicide
Meaning: the killing of a king
Example: The man was charged with regicide after killing the king.

Word: Regime
Meaning: a style of management or rule
Example: In order to build muscle and lose fat; a weight lifter must follow a rigorous regime composed of intense workouts and a strict diet.

Word: Regimen
Meaning: a controlled course of treatment or therapy
Example: My dietary plan includes a rigorous regimen based on the consumption of no more than 1;500 calories a day.

Word: Regiment
Meaning: to strictly manage a person or thing
Example: The drill sergeant will regiment the new recruits until his commands become their habits.

Word: Regimented
Meaning: well-ordered or organized
Example: Developing a regimented study schedule can help college students improve their grades.

Word: Region
Meaning: a specific area
Example: Differing from the states out west; the northwest region of the United States is known for its cold weather and scrumptious seafood.

Word: Regional
Meaning: relating to a specific area or section
Example: The regional finals included teams from several nearby areas.

Word: Regionalism
Meaning: a sense of community based on region as opposed to another form of unification
Example: In a rare display of regionalism; the entire community of this area has banded together against the corporation trying to take our land.

Word: Register
Meaning: to enlist or enroll
Example: Several customers agreed to register for the new loyal customer program during check out.

Word: Registered
Meaning: enrolled; enlisted
Example: The fugitive registered under an alias at the hospital so that her true identity would not be revealed.

Word: Registration
Meaning: enrollment; sign-up
Example: A fifty-dollar registration fee was required when enrolling in summer dance classes.

Word: Regnant
Meaning: currently ruling
Example: The empress regnant refers to a female monarch that is currently ruling the Chinese empire.

Word: Regress
Meaning: to fall back to a previous state
Example: After being an A-student for several months; Hank is starting to regress into the practice of not studying.

Word: Regression
Meaning: the act of returning to a prior state
Example: When my teenager does not get his way; he undergoes regression and starts to act like an upset toddler.

Word: Regret
Meaning: remorse or guilt one feels for an action
Example: The woman shouted that her husband would feel regret leaving her; but he doesn’t seem remorseful yet.

Word: Regretful
Meaning: feeling or showing guilt or remorse
Example: Although his tone sounded regretful; the fed-up wife questioned if her husband was really sorry for his affair.

Word: Regretfully
Meaning: with sadness or disappointment
Example: The man regretfully; resigned from his dream job after his mother got sick out of state.

Word: Regrettable
Meaning: something that brings forth a feeling of disappointment
Example: Traveling on a low budget flight was a regrettable experience for the disappointed customer.

Word: Regrettably
Meaning: unfortunately
Example: Regrettably; I will not be able to attend the performance due to another event on the same night.

Word: Regroup
Meaning: to stop for a short period before continuing doing a difficult task
Example: After another devastating loss; the team decided to regroup and discuss strategies for the next meet.

Word: Regular
Meaning: usual; normal
Example: Unique bills such as the two-dollar bill are not seen as often as regular currency.

Word: Regularity
Meaning: predictability; constancy
Example: The king’s regularity made him an easy assassination target for cutthroats who could predict his whereabouts.

Word: Regularly
Meaning: frequently; often
Example: The movie buff regularly went to shows by herself; enjoying the weekly popcorn almost as much as the films.

Word: Regulate 
Meaning: to determine and oversee policies or rules
Example: Only licensed referees are allowed to regulate professional games.

Word: Regulation
Meaning: control; management
Example: Regulation of the industry has fallen into the inept hands of someone with no management experience.

Word: Regulatory 
Meaning: something that holds you to the rules
Example: Many citizens believe the regulatory laws of the country need changing

Word: Regurgitate
Meaning: to expel swallowed substances out of the mouth or to repeat information despite not understanding it
Example: While I didn’t understand the lecture; I was able to regurgitate the content well enough to create a decent essay.

Word: Rehabilitate
Meaning: to bring back to a healthy or useful state
Example: The image consultant believes she can rehabilitate the reputation of the disgraced politician.

Word: Rehash
Meaning: to go over something again
Example: Lawmakers have decided to rehash the idea of the healthcare bill to come up with a new version that could pass in the senate.

Word: Rehearsal
Meaning: a practice or trial of a play or similar public performance
Example: The actors had one last rehearsal the night before the big play; since they wanted to be absolutely sure that they were prepared for their big performance.

Word: Rehearse
Meaning: to practice or run through
Example: The only times the whole cast is available to rehearse for the finale is at 3:00 pm.

Word: Reify
Meaning: to make something real become more concrete
Example: The attorney tried to reify the statement so it would become more real for the jury.

Word: Reign
Meaning: the timespan during which an individual or government is in power
Example: A few years ago; the queen celebrated her fifty-year reign as the monarch of her country.

Word: Reimburse
Meaning: to give back what has been given; used; or damaged
Example: To make the trip more affordable; my company is going to reimburse me for all expenses.

Word: Reincarnation
Meaning: the act of being reborn in a new form or body
Example: If you accept the idea of reincarnation; you believe a person’s spirit will leave its deceased form and step into a living vessel.

Word: Reindeer
Meaning: a deer with long antlers that lives in the Arctic tundra of Europe; Asia; and North America
Example: The man traveled across the northeast; herding nomadic reindeer in the arctic.

Word: Reinforce
Meaning: to strengthen
Example: Because the students were inattentive; the teachers decided to reinforce the rules by creating harsher consequences for breaking them.

Word: Reinforcement
Meaning: strengthening or boosting of something
Example: Reinforcement of the existing drunk driving laws means tougher fines and sentences for those convicted.

Word: Reins
Meaning: ownership
Example: After I injured my foot; my husband had to take the reins over the household.

Word: Reinstate
Meaning: restore; bring back
Example: My insurance will reinstate my policy once I’m fully paid up.

Word: Reinvigorate
Meaning: to revive or refresh
Example: A free luncheon was held for staff to reinvigorate moral and refresh company unity.

Word: Reiterate
Meaning: to do or say something many times; repeat
Example: Do you have to reiterate everything you say?

Word: Reject 
Meaning: to not consider or accept something
Example: The nerdy boy was shocked when the homecoming queen didn’t reject his party invitation.

Word: Rejoice
Meaning: display or show feelings of great joy
Example: The children will rejoice after they open their holiday gifts.

Word: Rejoinder
Meaning: a clever or sharp response
Example: The boy was chastised when he responded to the teacher with a sarcastic rejoinder.

Word: Rejuvenate 
Meaning: to provide with energy and/or strength
Example: The football players consume sports drinks to rejuvenate themselves during the game.

Word: Relapse
Meaning: to fall backwards; usually in relation to a person’s health
Example: After the relapse; I had to return to my sickbed.

Word: Relatable
Meaning: relevant; applicable
Example: While on dates; women and men should focus on relatable subjects that are relevant to both sexes.

Word: Relate
Meaning: to feel sympathy for or identify with someone
Example: I could not relate to my friend’s misery in breaking up with his girlfriend; as I was still going steady with my first.

Word: Relation
Meaning: the way in which two or more people or things are connected
Example: The detectives were certain there was no relation between the two crimes; but the victims’ families thought they were connected.

Word: Relational
Meaning: relating to the connection between two things
Example: The relational database contained data that was connected to both of the businesses.

Word: Relationship
Meaning: the way in which two people or organizations are connected
Example: The mother and daughter have a very close relationship and can talk about almost anything.

Word: Relative
Meaning: a family member connected
Example: As a close relative of Elvis Presley; the man tried to sell off his cousin’s things for top dollar.

Word: Relatively
Meaning: to a certain degree or in comparison to another thing
Example: Since the building was built two years ago; it is still relatively new.

Word: Relatives
Meaning: one's family members
Example: We are expecting cousins from Florida; so we must clean the house before our relatives arrive.

Word: Relativism
Meaning: a theory that states there are no absolute truths and what is right or wrong is all relative to what you believe
Example: The priest tried to dissolve Paul’s relativism; but couldn’t convince him that there are solid set rules of what is morally okay.

Word: Relax
Meaning: to do things that lessen tension and anxiety and increase feelings of calmness or peace
Example: It is so difficult for the workaholic to relax as he is always in a hurry to snag the next contract.

Word: Relaxation
Meaning: the state of feeling calm or at peace while doing things that lessen tension and anxiety
Example: Sun-drenched relaxation on a secluded beach is the only thing that will take away my work-related stress.

Word: Relaxing
Meaning: doing things that lessen tension and anxiety and increase feelings of calmness or peace
Example: Laying peacefully in his bed with a good book is one of the most relaxing activities of the man’s week.

Word: Relay
Meaning: to pass on something that has been received
Example: Because their communication system was down; the lieutenant had no way to relay information to his officers.

Word: Release
Meaning: to set something free
Example: Although President Trump promised to release his tax returns upon taking office; he has yet to do so.

Word: Relegate
Meaning: to put (someone or something) in a lower or less important position; rank
Example: After the lead actors had been repeatedly late for rehearsal; the director decided to relegate them to the chorus and replace them with their understudies.

Word: Relent
Meaning: to unstiffen or give in
Example: Because my father is very angry; he won’t relent on my harsh punishment.

Word: Relentless
Meaning: persistent; unyielding
Example: The relentless marshal pursued the escaped prisoner for ten years.

Word: Relevance
Meaning: the condition of being related to or relevant
Example: My talkative professor is known for sharing stories that have no relevance to our lessons.

Word: Relevant
Meaning: having significance
Example: Because the job applicant’s experience was not relevant to the position; we did not make him an offer of employment.

Word: Reliability
Meaning: dependability; consistency
Example: Although it might come with a higher price tag than some other vehicles; the dependable Toyota is known for its reliability.

Word: Reliable
Meaning: able to be counted on
Example: We fired the babysitter because she wasn’t reliable and often cancelled at the last minute.

Word: Reliance
Meaning: dependence on help or support
Example: When she resigned; the company dissolved because of its reliance on her leadership.

Word: Reliant
Meaning: needing or depending on someone or something
Example: The ill patient was reliant on his wife for all his medical care.

Word: Relic
Meaning: an artifact; an old object that remains; that which is left after loss or decay
Example: The piece of pottery was a relic of the past that evoked in me a feeling of nostalgia.

Word: Relief
Meaning: assistance; help
Example: Medicated anti-itch cream is the only thing that seems to give my ant bites any relief.

Word: Relieve
Meaning: to take away
Example: Medication to relieve the gun shot victim’s pain wasn’t strong enough to make a real difference.

Word: Relieved
Meaning: dismissed; released
Example: At shift change; the night nurse relieved the daytime aide and took over the patient’s care.

Word: Religion
Meaning: a faith or belief system; often revolving around a higher power
Example: The woman wasn’t a fan of organized religion; but she did believe that a higher power has a plan for us all.

Word: Religious
Meaning: related to a faith or belief system; often revolving around a higher power
Example: Religious tenants could not be broken by the parishioners; lest they receive a punishment by the priest.

Word: Relinquish
Meaning: to give up; abandon
Example: If you relinquish your right to an attorney; it could lead to some serious difficulty when you go before the judge.

Word: Relish
Meaning: have a fondness for
Example: After a long day at work; there is nothing I relish more than a long hot bath.

Word: Relocate
Meaning: to transfer to a different place usually a different city or state
Example: When my best friend’s father was offered a better job on the other side of the country; I knew they would relocate there for his job.

Word: Reluctant
Meaning: unwilling; not wanting to take some action
Example: Though he was reluctant to try the sushi; the man found it to be quite delicious.

Word: Rely
Meaning: to depend upon
Example: We have learned not to rely on local weather reports since they are highly inaccurate.

Word: Remain
Meaning: to stay back or hang around
Example: Priceless pieces of history remain buried with the Titanic at the bottom of the Atlantic.

Word: Remainder
Meaning: an amount that is extra
Example: After dividing 3 into 25; the remainder to the math problem is one because 3 goes into 25 eight times with 1 left over.

Word: Remake
Meaning: to create or construct something again
Example: A remake of the famous photograph was so authentic looking that it fooled a local historian into thinking it was the original.

Word: Remand
Meaning: to send someone accused of committing a crime into custody or bail until their next hearing
Example: The judge agreed to remand the convicted felon into custody until his sentencing hearing.

Word: Remark
Meaning: something said in an informal manner
Example: Ms. Simpson realized it was important to remark on her student’s report about his recent lack of effort in her class.

Word: Remarkable
Meaning: worthy of notice
Example: The girl’s remarkable singing talent earned her a spot in the contest’s top ten.

Word: Remedial
Meaning: designed to improve something
Example: Remedial steps will be taken to improve the damaged highway.

Word: Remedy
Meaning: a cure or handling of an illness or ailment
Example: Since I was camping in the woods; I found a remedy for my stomachache by eating part of a ginger plant on the side of the trail.

Word: Remember
Meaning: to put an idea; thought or image back into your mind
Example: On Memorial Day; many people will attend concerts and parades in order to remember the soldiers who died for their country.

Word: Remembered
Meaning: recalled; recollected
Example: Although she barely remembered her own children; the Alzheimer’s patient could still play the piano by ear.

Word: Remembrance
Meaning: the act of remembering a person or event
Example: There was a remembrance in honor of those who lost their lives in the tragedy.

Word: Remind
Meaning: to cause someone to remember something
Example: The department of transportation has placed flashing signs on the roads to remind drivers to slow down in the rain.

Word: Reminder
Meaning: an object or cue that causes a person to remember something
Example: The tarnished engagement ring was just another reminder of a marriage gone wrong.

Word: Reminisce
Meaning: to recall pleasant moments from one’s life
Example: When I eat sugar cookies; I reminisce about the childhood hours I spent making the treats with my grandmother.

Word: Reminiscence
Meaning: a retelling of a past experience
Example: Everyone has heard our manager’s reminiscence about the birth of his beloved son.

Word: Reminiscent 
Meaning: triggering memories of past times
Example: The smells coming from the bakery were reminiscent of the scents that used to come from my grandmother’s kitchen.

Word: Remiss
Meaning: lacking care or attention to duty; negligent
Example: If I let you go without food; I would be remiss in my responsibilities as a parent.

Word: Remission
Meaning: the condition of decreasing or lessening
Example: My father’s cancer went into remission when the oncologist said that his large tumor had almost disappeared.

Word: Remissness
Meaning: carelessness and inattentiveness
Example: Due to the remissness of the teenage driver; his car swerved in and out of traffic putting the other drivers on the road in danger.

Word: Remit 
Meaning: to send or convey
Example: If you do not remit the payment for your light bill within two days; your service will be disconnected.

Word: Remittance
Meaning: money used as payment for an expense
Example: Please give the remittance for the sold cookie boxes to your troop leader.

Word: Remnant
Meaning: what remains of an item after the majority of it has been used
Example: The abandoned plant was a remnant of the town’s once thriving economy.

Word: Remonstrate
Meaning: to argue with; complain to; or criticize someone about something
Example: Whenever I refuse my young daughter anything; she likes to remonstrate by stomping her feet on the floor.

Word: Remorse
Meaning: guilt or regret for a misdeed
Example: The psychopath appeared content and showed no remorse during the murder trial.

Word: Remorseless
Meaning: without guilt or regret
Example: The driver seemed remorseless after rear-ending my vehicle.

Word: Remote
Meaning: situated in a distant or secluded place
Example: The hunters retreated to a remote cabin that was hidden in the deepest part of the woods.

Word: Remotely
Meaning: from far away
Example: Due to the increase in technology; many students are able to remotely access library sources without having to step foot outside their houses.

Word: Removal
Meaning: the act of taking something away
Example: When the large pile of trash in the kitchen began to smell; it was necessary for the removal of the trash before it smelled up the house.

Word: Remove
Meaning: to take something away from where it was positioned
Example: The doctor will remove the splinter from the child’s foot using a pair of small scissors.

Word: Remuneration
Meaning: compensation for goods or services
Example: The salary earned by teachers is not enough remuneration for all the work they do on a daily basis.

Word: Remunerative 
Meaning: extending benefits; usually financial in nature
Example: Because Ann really loves money; she will not date a man unless he has a remunerative job.

Word: Renaissance 
Meaning: a renewed interest or rebirth of something
Example: The creation of the Internet brought about a renaissance in communication.

Word: Renascent
Meaning: becoming popular again
Example: The renascent team was becoming more and more popular with every step they took towards the playoffs.

Word: Rend
Meaning: to rip apart with violence or force
Example: The hungry dog is going to rend the steak into pieces.

Word: Render
Meaning: to provide
Example: Because of the principal’s unexpected death; grief counselors will be available at the school to render support to staff and students.

Word: Rendering
Meaning: a work of art or performance that represents something
Example: The artist’s rendering of the Golden Gate Bridge looked like a mirror image of the actual structure.

Word: Rendezvous
Meaning: an arranged meeting that is often held in secrecy
Example: The detective is going to try and catch the lovers during their intimate rendezvous.

Word: Rendition
Meaning: a presentation or version of something
Example: The singer praised the fan’s rendition of her song.

Word: Renegade
Meaning: someone who leaves one group and joins another with different goals or beliefs
Example: The renegade soldiers decided to leave the base and go back home to their families.

Word: Renege
Meaning: to not fulfill a promise
Example: Although my father made a promise to extend my curfew; he later decided to renege upon his word and ordered me home by eleven.

Word: Renew
Meaning: to restart or repeat
Example: Earlier in the month; the decision was made not to renew the plumber’s contract and to go with a new handyman.

Word: Renewable
Meaning: to be lengthened for a longer period of time; or able to be recreated
Example: Because my current one is renewable; I never need a new identification card for college.

Word: Renewal
Meaning: restoration; regeneration
Example: Renewal of the woman’s energy was accomplished by early morning coffee and a hot shower.

Word: Renounce
Meaning: to formally reject something or someone
Example: When Hector tried to renounce his membership in the gang; the group’s leader threatened him.

Word: Renovate
Meaning: to renew; to revamp something to make it look new again
Example: The homeowners decided to renovate their old kitchen.

Word: Renovation
Meaning: to restore a building in good condition
Example: Because our house was undergoing a renovation; we were staying in a hotel.

Word: Renown
Meaning: the state of being widely known; acclaim
Example: Because the college’s medical students perform exceptionally well on the licensing exam; the school has earned much renown.

Word: Renowned
Meaning: well known for something
Example: The renowned singer’s concert sold out in under a minute.

Word: Rent
Meaning: to lease
Example: The amount it costs to rent a home is often much pricier than an actual mortgage.

Word: Renter
Meaning: someone who pays money to live in a house or apartment that someone else owns
Example: The landlord is looking for a renter who needs a place to stay and doesn’t mind paying a five-hundred-dollar deposit.

Word: Renunciation
Meaning: a formal rejection of a position; duty; or claim
Example: The renunciation of the throne left the country without a leader.

Word: Reorientation
Meaning: the process of changing something direction or focus
Example: With the joining of a new pastor; the church’s beliefs and rule system underwent a reorientation.

Word: Repair
Meaning: to mend or fix something
Example: The asphalt needs someone to repair it; but the local officials claim there are no funds.

Word: Reparation
Meaning: something done or paid in expiation of a wrong
Example: Alec tried to make reparation for the hurt feelings he had caused; but Emily wasn’t having any of it.

Word: Repartee
Meaning: an interchange of clever replies
Example: The repartee between the two actors made the movie really funny.

Word: Repast
Meaning: food consumed as a meal
Example: Hoping to enjoy a romantic repast with her husband; Jill prepared his favorite dishes and lit candles.

Word: Repatriate
Meaning: to deport or exile
Example: The government has insisted that it will repatriate as many illegal immigrants as possible before the term end.

Word: Repatriation
Meaning: to return to ones country after a period of being gone; usually as a result of war or seeking asylum. applies to people; artifacts; and money
Example: After WWII; prisoners in labor camps waited eagerly for repatriation to their home countries where they could be united with surviving family members.

Word: Repay
Meaning: to reimburse
Example: Finding ways to repay one’s debts without solid employment is a difficult challenge.

Word: Repeal
Meaning: to cancel
Example: With so much negative feedback; the owner had to consider a repeal of his new dress code.

Word: Repeat
Meaning: to do or say something over again
Example: The producer couldn’t decide if he wanted to end the song after the final verse of have the chorus repeat again.

Word: Repeatedly
Meaning: recurrently; continually
Example: Clicking his pen repeatedly; it was obvious that the class clown was purposefully trying to annoy his professor.

Word: Repel
Meaning: to force a thing or person away
Example: Hopefully the air freshener will repel the odor of the deceased rodent.

Word: Repellent
Meaning: repulsive; disgusting
Example: The repellent odor was strong enough to keep the children out of the bathroom.

Word: Repent
Meaning: to feel sorrow or regret for what one has done
Example: I insisted that I had no need to repent because I never did anything wrong.

Word: Repent
Meaning: to feel or express remorse for one’s wrong actions
Example: Taylor’s husband continues to repent for cheating in the past; but she isn’t sure that his apologies are sincere.

Word: Repentance
Meaning: feeling of regret or remorse
Example: The man’s repentance was short-lived when he continued to steal.

Word: Repentant
Meaning: feeling or showing sorrow for wrongdoing
Example: The little boy was quite repentant for hitting his sister and apologized many times.

Word: Repercussion
Meaning: the consequence of a previous action
Example: The people in my neighborhood will not report the crime lord’s activities because they are afraid of a possible repercussion.

Word: Repertoire
Meaning: a set of skills or types of behavior that a person uses regularly
Example: As long as the piano player continues to strum through a boring repertoire of tunes; he will never keep a large audience.

Word: Repertory
Meaning: repertoire; collection
Example: A repertory of skits has been organized for this event and will be performed in sequential order.

Word: Repetition
Meaning: the action of repeating something
Example: Repetition of mantra invigorated the crowd; leading them to chant “we the people” over and over again.

Word: Repetitious
Meaning: having parts or actions that are repeated over and over again
Example: Writing articles can be repetitious; especially when the topic doesn’t change for a long time.

Word: Repetitive
Meaning: happening; in the same way; many times
Example: Lying was a repetitive pattern for George; and he seemed to tell more stories than he did truths.

Word: Repine
Meaning: to yearn for something or someone
Example: While in prison the man did nothing but repine for his freedom.

Word: Replace
Meaning: to substitute one thing for another
Example: Since my house was built in the 1920s; I needed to replace the windows so that they would not leak air.

Word: Replaceable
Meaning: expendable; consumable
Example: Thankfully; the parts on the broken washing machine are easily replaceable and won’t require a repairman.

Word: Replay
Meaning: to repeat or rerun
Example: I continued to replay the events in my mind; struggling to think of ways that I could make the past different.

Word: Replenish
Meaning: to refill
Example: There was no food in the refrigerator; so I had to visit the grocery store to replenish our supply.

Word: Replete
Meaning: having much or plenty of something
Example: History is replete with examples of the dangers of war.

Word: Repletion
Meaning: becoming completely full of something
Example: Repletion of the water jug took a long time since the water poured out of the faucet slowly.

Word: Replica
Meaning: an exact copy
Example: My mom bought me a replica of the Colosseum as a souvenir.

Word: Replicate
Meaning: to make an exact copy of something
Example: Students in the art class were asked to replicate Van Gogh’s Starry Night and make an exact copy of the piece.

Word: Replication
Meaning: a reproduction or duplicate
Example: I’m not upset about the ring being stolen because the piece was only a worthless replication.

Word: Report
Meaning: to state or inform
Example: News anchors are set to report on a local fire during the 10 o’clock segment.

Word: Reportedly
Meaning: allegedly; supposedly
Example: Reportedly; several break-ins have occurred in the local area.

Word: Repose
Meaning: a state of rest; sleep; or tranquility
Example: When you begin to meditate; you need to sit in repose and try to empty your mind of all thoughts.

Word: Repository
Meaning: a location for storage; often for safety or preservation
Example: The fireworks repository caught on fire which was a danger to everyone in the community.

Word: Reprehend
Meaning: to express dissatisfaction
Example: Because the book’s plot is boring; critics are sure to reprehend the story.

Word: Reprehensible
Meaning: highly unacceptable action; deserving severe disapproval or criticism
Example: How reprehensible of you to put sugar in my gas tank!

Word: Represent
Meaning: to stand or speak for someone else
Example: One of the lawyer’s partners was sent to represent her in court since she had a conflict of interest with the case.

Word: Representation
Meaning: a person or group that speaks or makes decisions on your behalf
Example: The school’s representation at State Finals included many great athletes.

Word: Representative
Meaning: a delegate or agent that is chosen or appointed to act or speak for another or others
Example: As a representative of the house of representatives; the delegate is responsible for making and passing laws for U.S. citizens.

Word: Repress
Meaning: to prevent from coming forth
Example: The patient takes the medicine to repress his violent mood swings.

Word: Repression
Meaning: control by holding down or holding back something (with force)
Example: His parent’s repression caused him to rebel at an early age.

Word: Reprieve
Meaning: to cancel or postpone a bad situation
Example: Because of a legal review; the criminal was granted a reprieve on his sentence.

Word: Reprimand
Meaning: an act of disapproval; generally done in an official manner
Example: When I misbehaved in school; my teacher sent me home with a written reprimand for my parents to sign.

Word: Reprisal
Meaning: an act of retaliation
Example: Outraged at failing his French class; Matt keyed the teacher’s car in reprisal.

Word: Reprise
Meaning: to repeat something
Example: Everyone was pleased to learn the actor would reprise his role as the captivating pirate.

Word: Reproach
Meaning: disgrace or scandal
Example: The politician’s sordid actions have brought reproach to the entire government.

Word: Reproachful
Meaning: disapproving; critical
Example: Shooting her son a reproachful glance; the mother made it clear that texting during mass was not appropriate.

Word: Reprobate
Meaning: a wicked or evil person
Example: While Janice pretended to be a good girl; she was really a reprobate who would do anything to get what she wanted.

Word: Reproduce
Meaning: to make a copy of something
Example: In architecture class; our assignment was to reproduce a replica of the Eiffel Tower.

Word: Reproduction
Meaning: the copying or duplication of something
Example: Reproduction or copying of the book for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited.

Word: Reproof
Meaning: a criticism or rebuke
Example: Angry letters of reproof were sent to the editor criticizing his latest opinion piece.

Word: Reprove
Meaning: to strongly disapprove of
Example: My father will more than likely reprove of my new boyfriend and chase him away like he has done all the others.

Word: Reptile
Meaning: a class of vertebrates that is characterized by scaly skin and the laying of soft shelled eggs (ex. snakes; lizards; turtles.)
Example: Known as the world’s largest reptile; scaly salt-water crocodiles often reach twenty feet long!

Word: Republic
Meaning: a nation governed by elected officials
Example: After the king was dethroned; the country became a republic led by a democratically selected leader.

Word: Republican
Meaning: a person advocating or supporting republican government; a member or supporter of the Republican Party
Example: Republican voters advocate for higher military spending and involvement in foreign affairs to promote peace.

Word: Repudiate
Meaning: to reject; refuse to support
Example: Because I want to avoid the conflict between my two sisters; I repudiate their argument.

Word: Repugnance
Meaning: intense revulsion or disgust
Example: The man’s repugnance towards mustard was only outdone by his revulsion of mayonnaise.

Word: Repugnant
Meaning: repulsive or offensive
Example: The smell was completely repugnant to the pregnant woman.

Word: Repulse
Meaning: to repel or drive back
Example: Because of his rude behavior that would repulse many people; he was without close friends.

Word: Repulsion
Meaning: a feeling of intense disgust or dislike
Example: Judy’s serious repulsion for snakes caused her to shudder at the mention of a reptile.

Word: Repulsive
Meaning: triggering disgust
Example: The repulsive smell of the dead body sent me running from the house.

Word: Reputable
Meaning: viewed as being reliable and trustworthy
Example: If your credit history shows you’re not reputable; you won’t be interviewed for a position at the bank.

Word: Reputation
Meaning: the way in which something or someone is viewed
Example: Because the restaurant has a poor reputation; it has few customers.

Word: Repute
Meaning: the opinion or reputation generally held of something or someone
Example: Because she is of ill repute; not many people in the neighborhood want to be seen with the beggar.

Word: Reputed
Meaning: reported to be such a way
Example: A local gang is reputed to have killed the storeowner because he refused to pay protection money.

Word: Request
Meaning: to ask for or seek something
Example: The only inmate to request a final meal before his execution asked for steak and shrimp.

Word: Requiem
Meaning: a program held in the Catholic Church to remember a deceased individual or a musical composition prepared as a remembrance
Example: The requiem for the deceased priest will be held this Sunday at Sacred Hearts Catholic Church.

Word: Require
Meaning: to specify something as mandatory
Example: Several courses on the student’s schedule require books to be purchased separately.

Word: Require
Meaning: to expect or insist on
Example: The only thing that I require out of my children is that they do their chores and homework without being told.

Word: Requirement
Meaning: a thing that is deemed mandatory
Example: The only requirement for taking the test is to pay the $125 fee two weeks before the assessment date.

Word: Requisite
Meaning: something that is considered or viewed as mandatory
Example: Before you can enter the official nursing program; you must complete the requisite coursework.

Word: Requisition
Meaning: a formal request for items needed to complete a task
Example: Because the teacher needed tablets; she completed an online requisition for a box of notebooks.

Word: Requite
Meaning: to give payment for something
Example: Ted chose to requite Carol for the lovely dinner by presenting her with a bouquet of flowers.

Word: Rescind
Meaning: to take back; cancel
Example: I cannot believe Janice’s boyfriend tried to rescind his marriage proposal!

Word: Rescript
Meaning: an official announcement or decree; especially one released by an emperor
Example: In the year 315; the emperor released a rescript encouraging all citizens to prepare for war.

Word: Rescue
Meaning: to save someone or something from a dangerous situation
Example: A swift moving river with flooding all around made it difficult for the search party to rescue the stranded dog.

Word: Research
Meaning: information gathered from a careful and diligent search
Example: Research gathered from the latest study suggests that radiation can actually increase a patient’s risk for cancer in remote areas of the body.

Word: Resemblance 
Meaning: the similarity to something else
Example: You cannot deny the resemblance between the twin brothers.

Word: Resemble 
Meaning: to be similar in appearance to something or someone
Example: Fraternal twins often do not resemble each other at all.

Word: Resembling
Meaning: having features or qualities that look like something else
Example: A plane resembling the one that Amelia Earhart flew is housed in the local aviation museum.

Word: Resent
Meaning: to express displeasure for
Example: Rather than resent others for having what you desire; work hard to get what you want.

Word: Resentful
Meaning: expressing bitterness or anger towards an unfair situation or person
Example: It’s hard to not feel resentful when your boss gives a promotion to his lazy son.

Word: Resentment
Meaning: anger or bitterness related to something that happened in the past
Example: After several years of dealing with her husband’s cheating; bitterness and resentment had built up in the wife’s heart.

Word: Reservation
Meaning: an advanced booking
Example: Booked up for two weeks; the fancy restaurant was filled and couldn’t accept another reservation.

Word: Reserve
Meaning: to book or retain
Example: My father used his veteran’s status to reserve a hotel room at a discounted price.

Word: Reserved
Meaning: booked; retained
Example: A special suite was reserved online for the lovebirds’ first anniversary.

Word: Reservoir
Meaning: a large natural or artificial lake used as a source of water supply
Example: Due to the drought; the reservoir was almost bone dry.

Word: Reside
Meaning: to stay in a specific place
Example: The homeless man will reside in a local shelter until he can afford his own apartment.

Word: Residence
Meaning: a place where someone lives
Example: Painting the residence and repairing the floors will increase the home’s value significantly.

Word: Resident
Meaning: a person who lives in a place tong-term
Example: As a resident of the small community; the nosy neighbor spent her days poking her nose in everyone else’s business.

Word: Residential
Meaning: designed for the housing of people
Example: Residential areas were created so that city residents would have new places to build their homes.

Word: Residual
Meaning: lingering after a process has finished
Example: I have a low amount of residual funds after paying my bills.

Word:  Residue 
Meaning: the tiny portion that is left behind when something is taken out or when a course of action is completed
Example: After the bomb exploded; a residue of black ash covered the crime scene.

Word: Residuum
Meaning: residue left behind by a substance
Example: Residuum from the firework explosion littered the city streets.

Word: Resignation
Meaning: retiring or giving up a position / the willingness to accept defeat
Example: Since he had made so many successful movies; the director felt it was time to hang up his hat and announce his resignation.

Word: Resigned
Meaning: to leave one’s position without being asked
Example: After a scandal emerged about his extramarital affair; the pastor resigned from his church.

Word: Resilient
Meaning: to recover from damage quickly
Example: The community was highly spirited and resilient despite a hurricane disaster.

Word: Resist
Meaning: to try and prevent a thing from happening
Example: I’m on a diet so I will try to resist the ice cream sundae.

Word: Resistance
Meaning: the effort made to prevent something from happening or someone from accomplishing something
Example: The peaceful activist urged his followers to refrain from any acts of resistance if they were arrested.

Word: Resistant
Meaning: describing something that is not easily damaged or broken down
Example: A bulletproof vest is designed to be resistant to small caliber projectiles and shrapnel; offering a soldier or police officer a greater chance of survival in combat.

Word: Resistor
Meaning: one that actively resists policies; especially those of the government
Example: Chanting an anti-communism slogan; the resistor was quickly arrested and toted off to jail.

Word: Resolute
Meaning: very determined; persistent
Example: After such a heart-breaking loss; every member of the team was more resolute than ever to win the next game against their arch-rivals.

Word: Resolution
Meaning: 
Example: His New Year’s resolution was to run three times a week; but only a month into the year he had already failed.

Word: Resolve
Meaning: to fix an issue or problem
Example: The air conditioning unit will not work until the maintenance man can resolve the problem.

Word: Resonance
Meaning: that which causes something to be significant to an individual
Example: Because Rick was born into a family of millionaires; he felt no resonance with the homeless man’s story.

Word: Resonant
Meaning: continuing to sound; echoing
Example: The resonant sound in the amphitheater travels to every seat in the house.

Word: Resonate
Meaning: to move a person in an emotional manner
Example: The speaker hopes her inspirational story will resonate with audience members and spur them to chase their dreams.

Word: Resort
Meaning: option; alternative
Example: As a last resort; the oncologist suggested a trial drug that might send the cancer into remission.

Word: Resound
Meaning: to be loud enough to echo
Example: The speaker’s loud words resound at every large scale speaking event he takes on.

Word: Resounding
Meaning: loud; booming
Example: A resounding cheer could be heard all the way across the stadium.

Word: Resource
Meaning: a useful or valuable possession
Example: Gold was the most valuable resource found in the land; but silver and quartz were found there as well.

Word: Resourceful
Meaning: able to overcome difficulties or to cleverly make do with what is available to create a solution
Example: The more resourceful you are; the better able you are to deal with unexpected situations.

Word: Respect
Meaning: a feeling of deep admiration and honor for something or someone that causes one to treat it in a dignified way
Example: After finding out the candidate had stolen money; the voters lost all respect for him.

Word: Respectable
Meaning: something or someone that is highly regarded
Example: After being a chaplain in the army; the respectable minister now had his own church in his hometown.

Word: Respected
Meaning: admired because of positive qualities or achievements
Example: Because he was such a respected member of society; people came from all around to say goodbye to the revered celebrity.

Word: Respective
Meaning: "Relating or belonging separately to the individual people previously
Example: 

Word: mentioned"
Meaning: The dogs and their respective owners stood waiting to see who would be crowned winner of the pet show.
Example: 

Word: Respectively
Meaning: in the order given
Example: Each recipient was called up to receive their award; respectively.

Word: Respiration
Meaning: the act of breathing in and then exhaling
Example: During respiration; humans inhale oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide.

Word: Respite
Meaning: brief interval of rest or relief
Example: Gardening is the perfect hobby for those who need respite from hectic city life.

Word: Resplendent
Meaning: shiny and colourful; and thus pleasing to the eye
Example: After the medal ceremony; Marshall’s comrades gathered around to congratulate him; looking resplendent in their dress blues.

Word: Respond
Meaning: to reply or answer
Example: The defendant would be able to respond to the charges in court on Monday since that is when he would be brought in.

Word: Response
Meaning: a reply or answer
Example: Once I bought the cell phone on Ebay; I would put my response in writing in the feedback box about this defective product.

Word: Responsibility
Meaning: the condition of being accountable for something
Example: Due to the lighting store having so many breakable items; parents must take responsibility if their children break something.

Word: Responsible
Meaning: having control and authority over something while being accountable for its protection or outcome
Example: Elizabeth is responsible for cooking Christmas dinner and I am in charge of the decorations.

Word: Responsive
Meaning: approachable and receptive to ideas; indications or propositions
Example: Since the new employee was responsive to change; her boss appreciated her flexibility.

Word: Rest assured
Meaning: to rest easy about something because it is guaranteed
Example: The mother can rest assured that her children will be in the best possible care while she's away on business.

Word: Restaurant
Meaning: a place where food is sold and served to customers
Example: After driving for several hours on our family road trip; we stopped by a restaurant to have dinner.

Word: Restfully
Meaning: quietly and soothingly
Example: Retirement allows older people to live restfully every day because they no longer work or have as much stress.

Word: Restitution
Meaning: the restoring of something that is stolen or lost to the property owner
Example: Instead of jail time; the shoplifter has been ordered to pay a huge sum of money as restitution for the stolen items.

Word: Restive
Meaning: feeling bored or impatient while waiting for something to happen or change
Example: As the clock ticked past 7:30; the wedding guests became restive and started to shift in their seats; wondering if something had happened.

Word: Restless
Meaning: uneasy and edgy
Example: Thinking about the tomorrow’s speech in front of hundreds of people; Sally tossed and turned during her restless sleep.

Word: Restoration
Meaning: the act of making something back to what it was
Example: Television programs are making money by having people conduct a restoration of a house as a DIY project.

Word: Restorative
Meaning: capable of making an individual feel well
Example: The doctor will tell you that most medications don’t have the restorative power of a good night’s sleep.

Word: Restore
Meaning: to turn back to the way it was
Example: After being hurt by my friend’s argument; we were able to restore our friendship within a few days.

Word: Restrain
Meaning: to control or restrict
Example: I had to restrain myself from punching Gary in the face.

Word: Restraint
Meaning: self-control or self-discipline
Example: Even though she was upset; the irritated mother showed emotional restraint and refused to yell at her children.

Word: Restrict
Meaning: to limit something
Example: After receiving threats; Tiffany would restrict accepting people as friends on Facebook to the people she knows very well.

Word: Restriction
Meaning: a limitation
Example: Since Tyler only had the basic cable system; the cable television company placed a restriction on certain movie channels.

Word: Restrictive
Meaning: to be limited
Example: Honor students may have a restrictive education at some public and private schools because they can’t offer high level classes.

Word: Result
Meaning: to acquire an action due to a previous action
Example: Weeks of tardiness did result in Kevin’s dismissal from his job even though he was a decent worker.

Word: Resultant
Meaning: something that comes from or is an outcome of something else
Example: If you push something; the resultant force will be for that thing to move forward in the same direction.

Word: Resume
Meaning: to start an action again after a break or disruption
Example: After the child’s 3-day suspension for fighting at school; he was able to resume his studies at school as long as he did not get in trouble again.

Word: Resumption
Meaning: the start of an action again after a break or disruption
Example: After working a dead end job for 10 years; the resumption of college now has led me to be progressive toward pursuing a better job.

Word: Resurface
Meaning: to suddenly appear or pop up again
Example: While at the beach; people on the shore waited frantically for the drowning swimmer to resurface again.

Word: Resurgence
Meaning: renewal of a comeback of an event
Example: After thousands of people died from the 9/11 attacks; there was a resurgence of patriotism where people began flying the U.S. flag outside their homes.

Word: Resurgent
Meaning: increasing or reviving after a period of little activity; popularity; or occurrence
Example: The publisher believed that vampire novels would be a resurgent trend this year.

Word: Resurrection
Meaning: the act of bringing a person who died back alive again
Example: People believe that Christianity evolved from the resurrection of Christ’s body from the Earth.

Word: Resuscitate
Meaning: to bring someone or something back to an active state
Example: Although we tried; we could not resuscitate the puppy who got hit by the speeding car.

Word: Retail
Meaning: to market items for the public to buy
Example: If you retail your clothing on Ebay; you can make a lot more money than putting it out at a garage sale.

Word: Retailer
Meaning: a store that markets items for the public to buy
Example: Every retailer in the community refused to sell the disgraceful t-shirt due to it racist comment on the front.

Word: Retain
Meaning: to maintain in use or possession
Example: Since I have poor memory recall; it is hard for me to retain lecture notes.

Word: Retainer
Meaning: a thing that holds something else in place
Example: The musician used a retainer to hold his guitar string in place.

Word: Retaliate
Meaning: to respond to an attack in some way
Example: Although Larry wants to retaliate against the man who killed his wife; he is going to wait for the court to administer justice.

Word: Retard
Meaning: to delay or hold back the development of something
Example: The poor fiscal decisions of one country can do much to retard the growth of other nations as well.

Word: Retch
Meaning: make the sound and movement of vomiting
Example: The pregnant woman was struck by a bout of morning sickness and began to retch.

Word: Retell
Meaning: to tell a story that has already been told
Example: A huge number of Disney movies have existed just to retell an originally dark and troubling fairytale in a more kid friendly way.

Word: Retention
Meaning: the power to hold on to or keep something
Example: Because of water retention my stomach appears swollen.

Word: Retentive
Meaning: able to remember facts and other information
Example: Jason has a retentive memory and never fails to recall the names of his three hundred employees.

Word: Rethink
Meaning: to consider again
Example: Because he did not answer the question correctly the first time; Paul’s teacher asked him to rethink his response.

Word: Reticent
Meaning: keeping to yourself; not likely to draw attention to yourself; uncommunicative
Example: While Barbara likes to discuss her personal life with our co-workers; I am much more reticent.

Word: Retina
Meaning: light-sensitive tissue located at the back of the eye that receives images and sends signals to the brain about what is being viewed
Example: The eye’s retina serves the same purpose of a camera’s film; as it receives images that are being viewed.

Word: Retinue
Meaning: an important person’s entourage or staff
Example: The president’s retinue includes a publicist; an assistant; and eight bodyguards.

Word: Retire
Meaning: to withdraw from a place
Example: After several hours of drinking and socializing; the debutante decided to retire to her bedroom.

Word: Retirement
Meaning: the action of leaving one’s job permanently
Example: A festive retirement bash is scheduled for my boss’s departure at the end of the month.

Word: Retort
Meaning: 
Example: Because Amy was brought up to always be respectful; she restrained the urge to make a sarcastic retort to the young man’s question about her zodiac sign.

Word: Retract
Meaning: to pull back in
Example: The company will retract its job offer if it learns of your arrest.

Word: Retraction
Meaning: the taking back of a previous statement that was not true or accurate
Example: After I gave my students the incorrect due date for the project; I needed to make a retraction.

Word: Retreat
Meaning: a private event or place where a person goes to relax
Example: The presidential retreat at Camp David was used as a place to unwind and reflect.

Word: Retrench
Meaning: to reduce or cut down on expenses; staff
Example: In this turbulent economy; many businesses are having to retrench and cut down on spending.

Word: Retribution
Meaning: punishment that is considered to be morally right and fully deserved
Example: Since the killer had murdered my husband; I found it fitting retribution that he be electrocuted.

Word: Retrieve
Meaning: to recover or regain
Example: When the baseball went into the mean neighbor’s yard; everyone was too scared to retrieve it.

Word: Retroactive
Meaning: influencing a previous time
Example: Under the retroactive trafficking proposal; convicted traffickers may receive reduced prison terms.

Word: Retrocede
Meaning: to give back or return
Example: After the Battle of Pueblo; France was forced to retrocede all the territory back to Mexico.

Word: Retrodict
Meaning: to make an assumption about the past using present-day information
Example: The dinosaur fossils helped the scientist retrodict several different theories about what they might have eaten.

Word: Retrofit
Meaning: to make an addition to the original; usually by adding an improvement
Example: Rugged individuals who like to go mudding in rough terrain often retrofit additional suspension on their trucks.

Word: Retroflex
Meaning: curved or turned in a backwards direction
Example: As the plane took off; I looked out the window to see a retroflex view of the airport behind me.

Word: Retrograde
Meaning: reverting backwards
Example: The stroke caused the teenager to make a retrograde fall into his childhood behaviors.

Word: Retrogress
Meaning: to return to a prior state that is typically worse than the current state
Example: When Glenn became a millionaire; he swore he would never retrogress to a life of poverty.

Word: Retrospect
Meaning: a review of past occurrences
Example: In retrospect; the old man wished he had traveled more during his younger days.

Word: Retrospective
Meaning: relating to things that occurred previously
Example: The retrospective automobile exhibit will highlight cars from the 1930’s and 1940’s.

Word: Return
Meaning: to turn back
Example: After visiting my friends in Milwaukee for two weeks; I realized it was time to return home.

Word: Reunion
Meaning: the instance of people that have been separated for a long time coming together again
Example: Having been apart for many years; our reunion when we saw each other again was a very tearful and exciting one.

Word: Reunite
Meaning: come together or cause to come together again after a period of separation or disunity
Example: Because the best friends were all attending different universities; they planned to reunite at their favorite coffee shop in four years.

Word: Revamp
Meaning: to give new improvement or life to something old
Example: The city decided to revamp their town monument; since it was looking a little old and beaten after forty years of only basic care.

Word: Reveal
Meaning: to expose
Example: Several people would reveal the truth of the car accident when they decided to testify as to what they saw that day.

Word: Revel
Meaning: to take joy in something
Example: In just a few days; thousands of people will go downtown to revel in the city’s New Year’s Eve celebration.

Word: Revelation
Meaning: a surprising realization that makes you look at things in a new way
Example: When he was arrested for driving so much over the speed limit; he came to the revelation that he might need to slow down.

Word: Revelling
Meaning: basking in something
Example: Peter was revelling in the thought of fishing in his favorite pond next week during his vacation.

Word: Revelry
Meaning: loud and rough partying
Example: After participating in a night of revelry; the college student woke up with a hangover.

Word: Revenant
Meaning: an individual who has returned from a lengthy absence or a grave
Example: Since my cat disappears for weeks at a time; he is our resident revenant.

Word: Revenge
Meaning: the act of hurting someone because they have hurt you
Example: After my cousin left me off her wedding invitation list; I decided to enact revenge and keep her off my guest list.

Word: Revenue
Meaning: the complete amount of money made by a certain entity
Example: The total revenue of the Jackson Rose Company exceeded one million dollars this year; but the company would need to pay their expenses.

Word: Reverberate
Meaning: to cause effects afterwards
Example: The drunk driver had no idea his foolish decision would reverberate and destroy the lives of five families.

Word: Reverberation
Meaning: an undesirable consequence or effect
Example: Losing the election was the candidate’s reverberation for alienating minority voters.

Word: Revere
Meaning: to regard someone or something with great respect or devotion
Example: Many people from India are Hindu; and so they do not eat beef because they revere the cow as a sacred object.

Word: Reverence
Meaning: honor or respect felt or shown
Example: Not surprisingly; everyone treated the Pope with a great deal of reverence at the event.

Word: Reverend
Meaning: member of the Christian clergy
Example: The church’s reverend spoke poetically as the growing crowd hung on his every word.

Word: Reverent
Meaning: showing deeply rooted respect and devotion
Example: During the funeral; humble and reverent silence filled the air of the sanctuary.

Word: Reverential
Meaning: showing humbleness and courteousness
Example: In the Chinese culture; the reverential children take care of their elderly parents and expect the same from their own children.

Word: Reverie
Meaning: a mental break from reality; a daydream
Example: I was angry when my children interrupted my reverie about my mansion and household servants.

Word: Reversal
Meaning: a complete change; often in the opposite direction
Example: A reversal of the initial football call caused many of the shocked fans to riot in the stands.

Word: Reverse
Meaning: to go in the opposite direction
Example: Complaints filed with the cell phone company by customers who said that they didn’t make certain calls caused the phone company to reverse the charges.

Word: Reversible
Meaning: able to go in the opposite direction
Example: My teacher explained to the class that a palindrome is a reversible word because of its spelling.

Word: Revert
Meaning: to reverse or turn back
Example: The state court refused to revert the local court’s decision.

Word: Review
Meaning: to reread or go through the material or text again
Example: Since Caroline missed several days of school due to sickness; she would need to review her history notes for tomorrow’s test.

Word: Revile
Meaning: to attack with abusive language
Example: To the candidate; it came as no surprise that his political rival would revile him in front of the press.

Word: Revise
Meaning: to review; alter and amend; especially of written material
Example: Encouraging each student to revise his or her essay; the writing coach met with some of the writers individually.

Word: Revision
Meaning: the action or process of reviewing; editing and improving
Example: John’s revision is very thorough; without the slightest error.

Word: Revitalize
Meaning: to put new life or energy back in something
Example: In an effort to revitalize the dying plant; we put it in a well-lit spot and provided it with plenty of water.

Word: Revival
Meaning: an instance of something becoming popular or important again after a long time
Example: A revival of the classic musical; Godspell; was playing at a theater downtown.

Word: Revive
Meaning: to return to a healthy condition
Example: The new battery will revive the lifeless vehicle.

Word: Revivify
Meaning: to give new life to something
Example: The interior decorator came up with some modern ideas to revivify the drab walls in her home.

Word: Revoke
Meaning: to cancel or make invalid
Example: The court has decided to revoke Jimmy’s parole and send him back to prison.

Word: Revolt
Meaning: to rebel; particularly against authority
Example: A revolt will force the government to shut down.

Word: Revolting
Meaning: gross or offensive
Example: Everyone knew the revolting truth when the news announced the arrest of the teenage boy who hit a special needs student at school.

Word: Revolution
Meaning: a changing of the way in which something is done or managed
Example: The industrial revolution changed many of the ways in which farming was performed.

Word: Revolutionary
Meaning: pertaining to a substantial change
Example: Due to Helen Keller’s revolutionary life; she was able to inspire others to do the impossible.

Word: Revolutionize
Meaning: to transform or change something completely
Example: When the famous celebrity changed her hair; she was able to revolutionize a new hairstyle causing many teenage girls to now wear their hair short.

Word: Revolve
Meaning: to be concerned with or centered around something
Example: The mother’s life seems to revolve around her children since she spends every part of her day with them.

Word: Revulsion 
Meaning: an abrupt sense of disgust
Example: When I saw my wife’s killer enter the courtroom; I felt revulsion and anger.

Word: Reward
Meaning: a prize for doing something great or something that needed to be done
Example: After training weeks for the marathon; it proved to be successful when the man won the reward for first place.

Word: Rewarding
Meaning: describes something that gives satisfaction (good feelings) or profit (good returns)
Example: Anna didn’t get paid to work at the shelter but she felt it was rewarding work because it brought her happiness.

Word: Rewind
Meaning: to return to the beginning
Example: Before CDs were invented; people used to rewind their cassette tapes by sticking a pencil in the tape reel and turning by hand.

Word: Rhapsody
Meaning: an expression of great passion that is often displayed in a creative manner
Example: The composer’s rhapsody described the passion he felt for his newborn son.

Word: Rhetoric
Meaning: persuasive or impressive language which is often insincere
Example: If someone does not stop the political rhetoric in that country; a civil war is likely to break out soon.

Word: Rhetorical
Meaning: relating to the art of effective or persuasive speaking or writing
Example: Despite their rhetorical differences with style; both speakers cover similar topics during their speeches.

Word: Rhetorical
Meaning: speech or writing that is intended to persuade or impress others
Example: The politician’s rhetorical responses were released to persuade the public to believe his lies.

Word: Rhetorician
Meaning: an expert in formal rhetoric. a speaker whose words are primarily intended to impress or persuade
Example: Hitler was a renown rhetorician whose uncanny charisma and ability to persuade attracted many to the Nazi cause.

Word: Rheumatism
Meaning: a medical condition typified by pain or swelling in fibrous tissue; joints; or muscles
Example: The rheumatism in my hands has caused my fingers to swell.

Word: Rheumy
Meaning: unclear and cloudy (of the eyes and nose) because a lot of water is present
Example: The child’s rheumy eyes appeared watery most of the school day.

Word: Rhythm
Meaning: a repeated pattern of movement or sound
Example: Most of the music you listen to has a base rhythm to it; a repeated pattern that sets the tone for the entire track.

Word: Ribald
Meaning: offensive or vulgar humor
Example: The comic’s sexual jokes were too ribald for my religious mother.

Word: Ribosome
Meaning: the element of the cell on which protein production takes place
Example: When you imagine a ribosome; picture a factory that manufactures proteins.

Word: Rickety
Meaning: unstable and likely to collapse
Example: The rickety chairs need to be repaired before anyone sits in them.

Word: Ricochet
Meaning: a rebound; bounce or skip off a surface
Example: Mike was warned that the bullets he was firing could ricochet off of their target and hit someone.

Word: Riddance
Meaning: the action of getting rid of an undesirable thing or person
Example: Good riddance is a phrase often used to describe a person’s joy after an unwanted individual leaves a place or situation.

Word: Ridden
Meaning: to have taken a ride on something
Example: I have ridden in all sorts of aircraft; from airliners to helicopters and even blimps; yet I have never taken a ride on a hang glider.

Word: Riddle
Meaning: a question that is specifically posed to challenge the ingenuity of someone to discover its meaning
Example: My best friend loves a good riddle; always asking questions in witty rhymes that require a great deal of thought to answer correctly.

Word: Ridicule
Meaning: 
Example: It may have been a simple ridicule; but it still made him feel rejected.

Word: Ridiculous
Meaning: absurd or crazy; usually resulting in derision or mockery
Example: The ridiculous claim that the moon is made of cheese is guaranteed to make people laugh at you should you actually utter it.

Word: Rife
Meaning: in a great quantity
Example: During the last economic crisis; the unemployment office was so rife with people that additional chairs were brought into the building.

Word: Rift
Meaning: a circumstance in which an amiable relationship has been broken
Example: A difference in perspectives caused a rift that forced the two friends to end their business partnership.

Word: Rig
Meaning: to set up or modify something; usually a piece of equipment
Example: In an attempt to rig a makeshift pair of skates; the young child strapped some buggy wheels to his shoes; though the results were less than stellar.

Word: Right
Meaning: correct and accurate
Example: The math teacher helped the students get the right answer by showing them the correct way to solve the problem.

Word: Righteous
Meaning: adhering to moral and/or religious beliefs
Example: Although the righteous man knew his wife was cheating on him; he refused to leave her because the church opposed divorce.

Word: Rightfully
Meaning: fairly and justly
Example: Because the land rightfully belongs to Martha; it is only fair that she be given the parcel.

Word: Rigid
Meaning: unwilling to alter one’s behaviors or views
Example: In the biographical movie; the cult leader was portrayed as a rigid man who tolerated no ideas except for his own.

Word: Rigmarole 
Meaning: needless actions or talk
Example: If the sweepstakes involves rigmarole that requires me to answer a large number of questions; then I have no interest in the contest.

Word: Rigor
Meaning: inflexibility; severity
Example: The stern professor does not accept excuses and is known for exhibiting rigor in his classroom.

Word: Rigorous
Meaning: strict and demanding
Example: To gain entry into any Special Forces unit in the military; you must push through rigorous testing.

Word: Rile
Meaning: to anger or irritate someone
Example: Since she’s already irritable; it doesn’t take much to rile up the moody teen.

Word: Ring
Meaning: a circular band of any material
Example: The newly married woman wore a golden ring with diamonds on her left finger.

Word: Riotous
Meaning: wildly rowdy; unmanageable
Example: Trying to calm the riotous crowd; the police showed up at the venue and began arresting concert goers.

Word: Rip
Meaning: to tear or pull something quickly
Example: If you quickly rip off the band-aid; it won’t hurt as bad as if you pull it slowly.

Word: Ripen
Meaning: to become or make something ripe
Example: Even though fruit will grow on a tree long before it is ready to eat; you must wait for it to ripen before it can be picked and consumed.

Word: Riposte
Meaning: a quick; witty remark that is said as a reply to criticism
Example: Full of quick comebacks; the comedian always has a riposte to any heckler in the crowd.

Word: Ripple
Meaning: a small wave
Example: We watched the ripple effect as we dropped stones from the bridge above to the water below.

Word: Rise
Meaning: to move in an upward direction
Example: After a few minutes in the oven; the cake batter began to rise toward the top of the pan.

Word: Risible
Meaning: provoking laughter
Example: After suffering through a busy tax season; Bob and his fellow accountants went out for some risible entertainment at the local comedy club.

Word: Risk
Meaning: a probability or chance of danger or hazard
Example: After smoking for 30 years; the risk that the man would acquire lung cancer was high since smoking had blackened his lungs.

Word: Risky
Meaning: full of danger or potential loss
Example: It is risky to go sky diving or bungee jumping because the possibility of death still exists if there were to be a malfunction with your equipment.

Word: Rite
Meaning: a religious practice
Example: The voodoo princess needed the blood of a chicken to perform the rite.

Word: Ritual
Meaning: a standard procedure for a rite or ceremony
Example: The team’s pregame ritual consists of a short prayer and a group hug.

Word: Rival
Meaning: a group or individual who is competing against another group or person
Example: Cathy is certain she will get the promotion because her rival is a new employee with no work experience.

Word: Rivalry
Meaning: competition
Example: The rivalry between the two teams was a longstanding conflict.

Word: Rivet
Meaning: to command the attention of
Example: Apple Inc. knows how to rivet the world’s attention by constantly releasing cutting edge technology.

Word: Riveted
Meaning: engrossed or completely fascinated by something or someone
Example: My eyes were riveted on my favorite actor as soon as he walked into the room.

Word: Rivulet 
Meaning: a tiny stream of water or another liquid
Example: As we walked through the desert; we were only able to get a rivulet of water from a cactus.

Word: Roadblock
Meaning: a barrier or obstacle that stops progress or makes moving forward difficult
Example: The hard worker’s lack of education is a roadblock that stops him from being able to get a job.

Word: Roadway
Meaning: the part of the street where cars drive
Example: The construction company is working on the roadway so that it will be safer for drivers.

Word: Roam
Meaning: to travel aimlessly and without a clear destination
Example: The wayward banished prince had no choice but to roam across the lands; searching for some means of redemption so he could finally return home.

Word: Roar
Meaning: a loud; deep sound; like that which comes from a lion
Example: Letting out a deep roar; the lion’s loud grumble scared away all of the animals in earshot.

Word: Rob
Meaning: to steal something form someone else
Example: The thieves tried to rob their neighbor; but his barking dog scared them away from his home.

Word: Robbery
Meaning: the act of stealing personal property that belongs to another person
Example: During the robbery; the thieves stole all of the sleeping homeowner’s jewelry and guns.

Word: Robot
Meaning: a computerized machine that performs specific functions
Example: The robot looked so much like a human that it was hard to believe that there was a mechanical system underneath its metal frame.

Word: Robust
Meaning: strong and healthy
Example: In order to be a fireman; one needs to be robust because fighting fires is a very difficult job.

Word: Rock
Meaning: to move back and forth
Example: The storm on the sea began to rock the cruise ship back and forth on the water.

Word: Rococo
Meaning: an ornate and fancy style of architecture and decoration that originated in France in the early 18th century
Example: 18th century rococo style was different from traditional English architecture in that it focused on both ornateness and symmetry.

Word: Rogue
Meaning: a person without principles; a dishonest individual
Example: Although the rogue was engaged to be married; he found it easy to flirt with other women.

Word: Roguish
Meaning: dishonest and deceitful; unprincipled and untrustworthy
Example: The roguish thief conned an old lady into giving him access to her life savings.

Word: Roguishly
Meaning: in the manner of a dishonest person or rogue
Example: The cheating husband stared roguishly at every woman in the bar.

Word: Roil
Meaning: to stir someone up; causing them to be angry or agitated
Example: The man’s hateful speech was just enough to roil up the already uneasy crowd.

Word: Roister
Meaning: to engage in noisy; drunken; or riotous behavior
Example: The man began to roister loudly after every touchdown.

Word: Role model
Meaning: a person who others look to as an example or inspiration
Example: Oprah is a role model to many young women who are wanting to be in the entertainment business.

Word: Role
Meaning: an actor or actress’s part in a play or movie
Example: The actress’s role in the horror film was that of a killer nurse who preyed on sick patients.

Word: Rollicking
Meaning: joyous and carefree
Example: Debra’s book is a rollicking good read that will take your mind on a joyride like none other.

Word: Romantic
Meaning: behavior or items that represent a sign of love and/or affection
Example: Sending a romantic letter to his crush was the guy’s latest effort to gain the woman’s heart.

Word: Romanticism
Meaning: a way of thinking or describing things makes them sound more exciting than they really are
Example: Because he is such a realistic person; George doesn’t understand his wife’s romanticism.

Word: Romp
Meaning: to play in an excited and energetic way
Example: Our playful pups romp and frolic around the yard every time we take them outside.

Word: Rookery
Meaning: a gathering or settlement of fowl or other animals
Example: Clustered together on a small island in the ocean barked a rookery of seals making so much noise as the beachgoers passed by on the shore.

Word: Rookie
Meaning: a beginner of a team or job
Example: All of the fans groaned when the rookie of the team came up to bat because they knew he did not have the experience to hit a homerun.

Word: Room for improvement
Meaning: the desire that something or someone will get better
Example: Even though the 8th grader was making a C in math; her mother explained that she could still work harder since there was room for improvement.

Word: Roomer
Meaning: a person who rents a room in another person’s home
Example: The roomer was evicted from her landlord’s house after she refused to pay her part of the utilities.

Word: Roommate
Meaning: a person who occupies the same house or apartment as someone else
Example: My roommate is looking for a new place to live since we constantly argue over the apartment we share.

Word: Roost
Meaning: where animals gather at night to sleep or rest; similar to nesting
Example: The bats roost in the dark corner of an abandoned barn.

Word: Root
Meaning: the basic cause or source of something
Example: The therapist helped her client get to the root of her emotional issues and heal once and for all.

Word: Rope
Meaning: a cord or cable made from natural fiber
Example: The mountain climber attached a rope to the side of the cliff and used the cable to lift himself up.

Word: Rose
Meaning: moved from a lower to a higher position
Example: The student rose from his seat and went to the board to solve the math equation.

Word: Roseate
Meaning: too optimistic; unrealistic
Example: The hopeful girl’s attitude towards life was too roseate for her realistic mother’s tastes.

Word: Roster
Meaning: a list of people's names; often with including the jobs they have been assigned
Example: A new student was added to the teacher’s roster; causing her to be short one desk.

Word: Rostrum
Meaning: a raised platform on which public speakers stand to address an audience; podium
Example: The set designers built a rostrum for the choir members to stand on.

Word: Rot
Meaning: to decay and deteriorate
Example: After several days in the fridge; the perishable products started to rot and smell.

Word: Rotary
Meaning: of motion revolving around a center or axis; rotational
Example: Before the invention of cordless phones; telephones were rotary and in order to make a call; individuals had to press the number; spin it around; to get to the next number.

Word: Rotate
Meaning: to spin around from the center
Example: The Earth does rotate on its axis near the sun so that each part of the Earth gets daylight and night.

Word: Rote
Meaning: without thought; by habit or routine
Example: By singing the alphabet song throughout the day; my daughter is learning her letters by rote.

Word: Rotogravure 
Meaning: a process used for printing in which the paper is rolled through a cylinder that has numerous indentions
Example: One of my grandmother’s most treasured possessions was a portrait of her parents that was printed in rotogravure through a rolling process.

Word: Rotten
Meaning: something that has decayed or deteriorated and is no longer fresh
Example: The rotten fruit sitting in the garden began to stink and attract flies.

Word: Rotund
Meaning: rounded in figure; plump; fat
Example: The jovial man’s rotund belly bounced wildly as he tried to jump rope with the kids.

Word: Rough
Meaning: Having a surface that is irregular not smooth
Example: Rough seas tossed the boat high in the area; causing it to sink.

Word: Roughly
Meaning: violently and forcefully
Example: The seizing plane shook roughly as it flew through an area of extreme turbulence.

Word: Roulette
Meaning: a gambling game in which players bet on which compartment of a revolving wheel that a small ball will land in
Example: As the ball spun around the roulette wheel; the gamblers bet on which number it would land in.

Word: Roundup
Meaning: to gather people or animals together
Example: When it was time to eat lunch; Mrs. Hall had to roundup all of the children and brought them into the school cafeteria.

Word: Rouse
Meaning: to make excited or enraged
Example: The presence of the minority police officers will rouse the racist group even further.

Word: Rout
Meaning: a defeat of an individual; army; group; or team
Example: After the dictator’s rout; the people finally had control of their country.

Word: Route
Meaning: a course or path to take to get somewhere
Example: After digging a 300-foot long trench; the water would travel down this route from the place where I first started digging and dumping it into the river.

Word: Routine
Meaning: activities performed at fixed times for intervals
Example: The teacher explained the classroom routine to students so they would know when it was time to go to lunch.

Word: Row
Meaning: a straight line of something
Example: Each row of corn was planted neatly in the field section by section.

Word: Rowdy
Meaning: wild in a loud or typically obnoxious manner
Example: The rowdy patrons at the bar were loud and especially irritating in their words; making the night less enjoyable for everyone present.

Word: Royalty
Meaning: the status or power of a king or queen or his or her family
Example: Because he is royalty; the queen is in charge of running the entire kingdom from her throne.

Word: RSVP
Meaning: to reply to a social request
Example: Since we had nothing to do next Friday night; we decided to RSVP to the party by calling our friends and letting them know we would be there.

Word: Rub
Meaning: to massage or kneed something by moving one’s hand or an object back and forth
Example: The massage tech moved her hands back and forth to rub out the tension in the man’s back.

Word: Rubbish
Meaning: garbage
Example: After trimming around the good part of the meat; the remainder of it was simply rubbish which I threw away.

Word: Rubble
Meaning: the pieces that remain after a structure is destroyed
Example: The hurricane turned several oceanfront homes into piles of rubble.

Word: Rube
Meaning: an uneducated or uncultured person that is from a rural area
Example: The city boy considers his country cousin an uncultured rube since he knows little about art or classical literature.

Word: Rubicon
Meaning: a boundary that is crossed without being able to return
Example: In my science fiction story; the young man crossed over the Rubicon into another dimension knowing that he will stay there forever.

Word: Rubicund
Meaning: bearing skin that is pink or red in color
Example: The sunburn made his face rubicund in appearance.

Word: Rubric
Meaning: a set of guidelines used to grade an assignment
Example: Sarah really needed a good grade in English in order to pass the course so she looked at the rubric before writing her next essay.

Word: Rucksack
Meaning: a sturdy bag with straps that is worn on the back; usually by hikers or campers
Example: After placing his rucksack on his back; the hiker prepared for his long march up the mountain.

Word: Ruckus
Meaning: a commotion or disturbance
Example: Due to the ruckus in the motel room next door; it woke my whole family up.

Word: Ruction
Meaning: a loud fight or disturbance
Example: The ruction in the cafeteria started when one student threw a lunch tray at another student.

Word: Rudder
Meaning: a part of a ship or vehicle found underneath that is used to turn the vehicle from side to side
Example: When the Titanic was raised into the air; the people in the lifeboats could see the rudder that was underneath the ship.

Word: Ruddy
Meaning: having a wholesome red skin color that generally comes from being outdoors a lot
Example: The pasty teenager got a ruddy tan after spending most of her summer on the soccer field.

Word: Rude
Meaning: to be impolite or disrespectful
Example: Since the child was spoiled throughout his life; his way of speaking to others always included his rude manners.

Word: Rudiment
Meaning: the start or beginning of a concept or plan
Example: My friend’s addiction to my chocolate cupcakes was the rudiment of my successful bakery.

Word: Rudimentary
Meaning: basic; minimal
Example: You need to have at least a rudimentary understanding of technology before you can upload a video on that website.

Word: Rudiments
Meaning: the simple skills or facts needed to begin or learn something
Example: In French 101; students will learn the rudiments of the language.

Word: Rue
Meaning: to experience regret or sorrow
Example: My husband will rue the day he ever cheated on me!

Word: Rueful
Meaning: displaying regret and/or sorrow for one’s actions
Example: The rueful dog looked pitiful after it chewed up its blanket.

Word: Ruefully
Meaning: in a way that expresses regret
Example: The little boys ruefully apologized for breaking the window.

Word: Ruffian
Meaning: a violent individual who more than likely engages in criminal activity
Example: The ruffian became violently angry when the cashier refused to sell him alcohol.

Word: Ruffle
Meaning: to annoy or upset someone or something
Example: “I didn’t mean to ruffle your feathers when I told you that your dress looked ugly;” the teenager told her classmate.

Word: Rug
Meaning: a small fabric mat used to cover part of the floor
Example: “Wipe your feet on the rug;” the mother told her muddy son as he entered the foyer of their house.

Word: Rugged
Meaning: describing a rough uneven area of land
Example: Since there are so many rocks on the island; the terrain is extremely rugged.

Word: Ruin
Meaning: to damage or wreck
Example: Her face reddened when I seemed to ruin the young girl’s dress after accidentally spilling wine on it.

Word: Ruinous
Meaning: causing ruin; destructive
Example: The ruinous policies of our principal caused many of the students to leave the school.

Word: Rule of law
Meaning: a legal principle that law should be the basis of governing a country and not the decisions of individual government officials
Example: Rule of law was established to take away some of the power of kings and make sure that all people were held accountable for their actions.

Word: Rule of thumb
Meaning: a general rule for a particular situation
Example: As a rule of thumb; the teacher doesn’t give extra credit assignments to any students.

Word: Rule
Meaning: a law or regulation that tells what actions should or shouldn’t be done
Example: Our state has put a law in place requiring everyone in a moving car to wear a seatbelt.

Word: Rumble
Meaning: to roar or thunder
Example: A rumble in the sky alerted the washerwoman that a storm was brewing.

Word: Ruminant
Meaning: a type of animal with a four-chambered stomach hat brings up food from its stomach and chews it again
Example: The water buffalo is a ruminant; which means it has a four-chambered stomach.

Word: Ruminate
Meaning: to think deeply about something
Example: Although I knew I cared deeply for Henry; I still had to ruminate on his marriage proposal for a while.

Word: Rumination
Meaning: persistent and repetitive thinking
Example: Constant rumination plagued the mind of the obsessive inventor who was unable to free himself from his thoughts.

Word: Rummage
Meaning: to look for something by searching through the contents in an area
Example: The dog will rummage through the garbage for food when it gets hungry.

Word: Rumor
Meaning: gossip or a story that is circulating but not confirmed as true
Example: Like junior high school girls; the gossiping women spread the malicious rumor all around the office tower.

Word: Rumor
Meaning: a circulating story or tale that is probably not true
Example: Allie was embarrassed by the nasty rumor and swore that she wasn’t dating two boys at the same time.

Word: Rumpus
Meaning: a commotion or noisy disturbance
Example: When the teacher began the class with a pop quiz over the difficult previous lesson; a rumpus among the students erupted throughout the room.

Word: Runaway
Meaning: a person or thing that has run away from a place or situation
Example: The runaway bride flew from the alter after becoming too afraid to marry her fiancé.

Word: Rung
Meaning: struck a bell or an object with a bell
Example: The schoolmaster rung the bell to let everyone know the class was ready to start.

Word: Runoff
Meaning: an extra election or contest used to decide a winner when the first event failed to result in a clear victor
Example: Since the vote was too close to count between two of the candidates; there will be a runoff next month.

Word: Runt
Meaning: the smallest animal of a litter
Example: The runt was the smallest; weakest; and cutest of the entire poodle puppy litter.

Word: Rupture
Meaning: a crack that interrupts peaceable relations
Example: The missile launch is sure to rupture the relationship between the two countries.

Word: Rural
Meaning: areas that are not in an urban environment
Example: My father and his friends often leave the city to go hunt game in rural areas.

Word: Ruse
Meaning: a plan or plot to mislead someone
Example: The security guard knew the girls were going to try and use a distractive ruse in order to shoplift.

Word: Rush hour
Meaning: the time each day when traffic is the heaviest
Example: Rush hour traffic was so congested that it took us an hour to drive ten miles down the road.

Word: Rush
Meaning: to move quickly usually due to being late or something urgent
Example: Brad had to rush around the house looking for his uniform when he woke up late for school.

Word: Rust
Meaning: corrosion or oxidation that occurs when certain types of metals get wet
Example: Because the child left his bike in the rain; orange rust covered his metal chain.

Word: Rustic
Meaning: having a country or simple style
Example: The rustic cabin was filled with hand carved furniture.

Word: Rusticate
Meaning: to suspend a student from a university as punishment
Example: Ruling to rusticate the student; the college’s board of directors sent him home for cheating.

Word: Rustle
Meaning: to move (something) with a soft crackling sound
Example: It was a lovely fall day watching the leaves change color and rustle in the wind.

Word: Rustling
Meaning: making light sounds because parts of something are touching each other
Example: Rustling his change together in his hand; the boy thought long and hard about how he wanted to spend his coins.

Word: Rusty 
Meaning: metal object covered in rust
Example: Because the work tools were never stored in a dry place; they became rusty; reddish-brown; and unusable.

Word: Rut
Meaning: a habit or pattern that is hard to change
Example: The prize-winning horse seemed to be a rut this year; having come in dead last during the past three races.

Word: Ruthless 
Meaning: without concern for others; cold-hearted
Example: The ruthless gang leader killed the new recruit for showing up late for a meeting.

Word: Rutilant 
Meaning: possessing a reddish or rosy glow
Example: During the party; the red lights covered the room in rutilant rays.

Word: Rutted
Meaning: having deep grooves from wheels driving over something consistently
Example: Rutted sections of the gravel track caused the bicyclist to flip his bike after hitting a dip in the road.

Word: Sabbath
Meaning: a day set aside for religious observation including worship and rest
Example: Many stores in the U.S. are closed on Sunday as the Sabbath day is regarded as a time for rest.

Word: Sabbatical
Meaning: extended period of leave
Example: The pastor’s sabbatical was related to his health issues.

Word: Saber
Meaning: a long; heavy sword with a curved blade
Example: An inseparable element of the ninja costume was the curved saber that was used to ward off enemies.

Word: Sable
Meaning: a weasel-like mammal with warm fur that is often used to make clothing
Example: The sable is best known for its soft pelt; making it a popular and valuable mammal for the fur industry.

Word: Sabotage
Meaning: to deliberately damage or destroy something in order to prevent it from being successful
Example: He felt his girlfriend would sabotage his efforts to succeed; leading him to break off the relationship.

Word: Saboteur
Meaning: a person who practices sabotage
Example: A saboteur was not needed since the political candidate’s constant scandals ruined his own campaigns.

Word: Saccharine
Meaning: romantic or sentimental to the point of sounding silly
Example: The foolish man at the bar thought he could pick me up with a saccharine line.

Word: Sack
Meaning: a bag made from strong materials such as burlap that is used to carry goods
Example: Reaching into the sack; the boy took out his lunch and began to eat the goodies his mother had packed.

Word: Sacrament
Meaning: a formal religious rite or ceremony
Example: According to the church; April can’t receive the communion sacrament because she is a divorced woman.

Word: Sacred
Meaning: holy; divine
Example: If you disturb the god's sacred shrine; some people believe you will be instantly killed.

Word: Sacrifice
Meaning: to give up something valuable to help someone else
Example: I decided to sacrifice my illustrious career to raise my family.

Word: Sacrificial
Meaning: relating to sacrifice
Example: Giving up your umbrella for someone else is a sacrificial act.

Word: Sacrilege
Meaning: the corruption of something considered holy
Example: It is considered an act of sacrilege for anyone to touch the sacred statue.

Word: Sacrilegious
Meaning: acting in a disrespectful manner towards something or someone considered to be holy
Example: Burning the Bible is a sacrilegious act.

Word: Sacrosanct
Meaning: too important or respected to be criticized or changed
Example: Woodland Hills Cemetery is sacrosanct and cannot be moved to another plot of land because of the large number of deceased soldiers who are buried there.

Word: Saddened
Meaning: very upset and depressed
Example: Saddened by the loss of his mother; the young boy could do nothing other than cry.

Word: Sadder
Meaning: filled with more sorrow or grief in comparison to someone; something else; or another time
Example: Losing a loved one is always difficult; but I was much sadder the day by grandmother died than during any other loss.

Word: Saddle
Meaning: a leather covered seat used to ride an animal
Example: Placing a saddle on the horses back; the cowboy prepared for his long journey.

Word: Sadistic
Meaning: delighting in or feeling pleasure from the pain of others
Example: Doris feared being kidnapped by a sadistic maniac.

Word: Sadly
Meaning: unfortunately and regrettably
Example: I pretended to react sadly to the news of my husband’s departure; but I was really overjoyed.

Word: Sadness
Meaning: being filled with sorrow or grief
Example: None of the social worker’s college courses could prepare her for the deep sadness and grief experienced by the children being removed from their homes.

Word: Safari
Meaning: a journey to see or hunt animals; especially in Africa
Example: Animals of the African savannah were crowded out by tourists wanting to snap photos on safari.

Word: Safe place
Meaning: a space created for people to gather in to feel free from danger or hurt
Example: A safe place was established so that college students would have a danger-free zone to gather in on campus.

Word: Safeguard
Meaning: to take appropriate measures in order to protect something from harm
Example: Washing your pillows and sheets in hot water can safeguard against a lice infestation.

Word: Safety net
Meaning: a sort of cushion or protection against something negative
Example: When Katie applied to college; she chose one easy to get into school as a safety net in case all of her top choices rejected her.

Word: Safety
Meaning: security or well-being
Example: Because the hurricane poses a risk to their safety; the family has decided to evacuate.

Word: Sag
Meaning: to droop down to a lower level
Example: The sandcastle began to sag in the middle as water filled the top of the construction.

Word: Saga
Meaning: a lengthy and complex sequence of experiences
Example: The author’s second novel is the continuation of the saga she started in her first book.

Word: Sagacious
Meaning: intelligent; showing good judgement
Example: Wise and full of insight; the sagacious leader would live on to better the world.

Word: Sagacity
Meaning: ability to make good judgments and decisions
Example: While many people believed he was stupid; the politician’s sagacity allowed him to realize he would not be elected again.

Word: Sage
Meaning: a wise individual who gives others helpful advice
Example: The sage of the Indian tribe was able to heal the badly wounded man.

Word: Sail
Meaning: to travel in a boat; especially one with material extended on a mast to catch the wind
Example: With sails up and the wind blowing; the pirates prepared to sail their ship to their next destination.

Word: Sailor
Meaning: one whose occupation is on board a ship at sea
Example: The sailor asked to move to quarters on a different deck since he stayed seasick most of the time.

Word: Saint
Meaning: a title given to someone regarded as holy and virtuous after his or her death
Example: Believing that her prayer would be answered; the worshiper cried out to the departed saint for deliverance from her situation.

Word: Sake
Meaning: done for a reason; explanation; or advantage
Example: The mother sacrificed her livelihood and lifestyle by devoting all of her time and energy for the sake of her children.

Word: Salacious
Meaning: promoting sexual desire or lust
Example: The salacious content of some popular novels has led parents to demand that they be removed from school libraries.

Word: Salary
Meaning: a determined yearly amount of money paid to an employee by an employer during a job
Example: Before accepting the position at the law firm; I negotiated my salary to be $3;000 more.

Word: Salient
Meaning: most important or prominent
Example: When I look at the house for sale; salient defects such as the broken windows stare back at me.

Word: Saliva
Meaning: wet liquid substance produced from glands in the mouth
Example: Suspects in a crime are required to submit their DNA by having their saliva tested with cotton swabs.

Word: Sallow
Meaning: having an unnatural yellowish or pale skin color
Example: Since Jana spent the entire winter inside; her complexion was sallow and unnatural when she finally went outdoors.

Word: Sally
Meaning: a quick attack
Example: Knowing the home intruder would find me in the closet; I decided to spring a surprising sally upon him with any weapon I could find.

Word: Salon
Meaning: a lovely room usually in the front part of a house used for welcoming and amusing visitors
Example: After purchasing the mansion; the homeowners first decorated the salon since that is the place their friends would most likely be entertained.

Word: Salubrious
Meaning: something that is good for you or is beneficial to mind or body
Example: Vegetables are salubrious foods which provide essential nutrients.

Word: Salutary
Meaning: producing good benefits
Example: The board hopes the merger of the two companies will have salutary effects that will leave all the shareholders happy.

Word: Salutation
Meaning: a demonstration of a greeting
Example: It is customary to begin your letter with some type of salutation.

Word: Salutatorian
Meaning: someone who graduates with the second best GPA in their class
Example: Isabel knew she had big shoes to fill at Leonard High School since her father was valedictorian and her mother was salutatorian of this school twenty years ago.

Word: Salute
Meaning: to show distinction to someone by raising the right hand using a certain gesture
Example: During the military funeral; everyone notices the officer’s salute to the coffin as it passed by.

Word: Salvage
Meaning: something pulled out or saved because of its value
Example: The metal salvage we got from the old car is worth a tidy sum.

Word: Salvation
Meaning: a thing that rescues a person or object from a dangerous situation
Example: When the shipwreck survivor located a box of food; he knew he'd found his salvation.

Word: Salve
Meaning: a cream or liniment that is used to moisturize and soothe the skin
Example: Models for the cosmetic company were required to use a salve in order to have flawless skin for the commercials.

Word: Salvo
Meaning: an act of firing two or more guns or other weapons at the same time
Example: The soldier loaded his gun in order to complete the salvo.

Word: Samurai
Meaning: Warriors of pre-modern Japan
Example: Japanese Samurai warriors of the Edo period were the highest ranking class from the 1600-1800s.

Word: Sanctify
Meaning: to make something holy
Example: The priests have to sanctify the holy water.

Word: Sanctimonious
Meaning: pretending to be better than others on a moral level
Example: Even though the minister had been arrested for shoplifting; he still had the nerve to act sanctimonious in front of the congregation.

Word: Sanction
Meaning: give official permission or approval
Example: Because of the school’s behavioral problems; the principal is unlikely to sanction a school dance this year.

Word: Sanctity
Meaning: the condition of being holy or having great value
Example: According to many religions; it is a sin to terminate the sanctity of the marriage vows.

Word: Sanctuary
Meaning: a place where one goes to be safe or to escape from life
Example: My family knows not to bother me when I am relaxing in my sanctuary.

Word: Sanctum
Meaning: a private place where no interruptions occur
Example: Deep inside the sanctum; the lovers were able to enjoy each other’s company with no chance of being discovered.

Word: Sane
Meaning: of sound mind and sensible
Example: Wearing earplugs was the only way for the worker to stay sane in the noisy boiler room.

Word: Sangfroid
Meaning: composure that is maintained even under great stress
Example: Even as the building fell around him; the fireman maintained his sangfroid and rescued the little girl.

Word: Sanguinary
Meaning: associated with events that produce bloodshed
Example: The sanguinary fight left one of the students covered in blood.

Word: Sanguine
Meaning: optimistic; hopeful; or confident about the future
Example: Although the economy is looking better; we should still not be too sanguine about the future.

Word: Sanitarium
Meaning: a hospital where people are treated for mental illnesses or chronic diseases
Example: When he couldn’t handle the pressure anymore; the man’s depression got the best of him and he retreated to a sanitarium.

Word: Sanitary
Meaning: to be clean and hygienic
Example: After wiping the counter using a disinfectant spray; I knew the counter was sanitary for cutting vegetables.

Word: Sanitation
Meaning: the process of maintaining cleanliness
Example: Unfortunately; the sanitation crew wakes me up every Saturday from a sound sleep to take our trash from the driveway.

Word: Sanity
Meaning: the condition of being mentally sound
Example: Because the children were eager to get their inheritance; they challenged their elderly mother’s sanity in court.

Word: Sans
Meaning: without
Example: My plate was filled with steak and potatoes but sans shrimp since I am allergic to seafood.

Word: Sapid
Meaning: having a strong and savory taste
Example: The sapid steak was more appetizing than any other meat in the café.

Word: Sapience
Meaning: wisdom combined with discernment
Example: The difficult exam required both sapience and logical reasoning skills.

Word: Sapient
Meaning: displaying great knowledge or insight
Example: My sapient mother has helped me deal with a lot of relationship issues.

Word: Sapling
Meaning: a young; skinny tree
Example: A birch sapling grew in the middle of the forest as all the other trees had been chopped down.

Word: Saponaceous
Meaning: pertaining to bubbly and soapy
Example: After I drove into the school’s fundraiser car wash; two students poured a saponaceous substance covering my vehicle with white foam.

Word: Saporous
Meaning: full of flavor; good-tasting
Example: Stirring the saporous stew; the chef couldn’t wait to serve his flavor-packed simmer to his guests.

Word: Sappy
Meaning: Overly sentimental or sweet
Example: Viewers reviewed the overrated television drama as sappy and overly romantic.

Word: Sarcasm
Meaning: a biting remark spoken to convey the opposite meaning
Example: While Jason is amused by his sarcasm; no one else likes his smart remarks.

Word: Sarcastically
Meaning: saying the opposite of what one means in a mocking or joking way
Example: Joking sarcastically; the woman said; “Not all men are annoying; some are dead.”

Word: Sarcophagus
Meaning: a stone coffin from ancient time
Example: Peering into the sarcophagus; the archeologist’s eyes lit up when he saw the intact remains.

Word: Sardonic
Meaning: displaying disrespect in a scornful way
Example: Jim’s sardonic laugh made his parents angry enough to stop paying his cellphone bill.

Word: Sartorial
Meaning: relating to clothing; fashion or dressing
Example: Those with a developed sartorial sense can tell a cheap suit from an expensive one.

Word: Sashay
Meaning: to walk in a way that attracts attention
Example: Several high fashion models sashay down the runway by swinging their arms and their hips to the rhythm of the music.

Word: Sassy
Meaning: feisty and vivacious
Example: With a strong personality; the sassy girl would always answer the teacher’s questions in a funny and upbeat way.

Word: Satchel
Meaning: a bag; often with a strap
Example: Tossing his satchel over his shoulder; the mailman continued down his route.

Word: Sate
Meaning: to satisfy; fill up
Example: My family’s huge get-togethers are filled with so much food; they can sate the hungriest person.

Word: Sated
Meaning: satisfied to the fullest; had more than one could enjoy at one time
Example: Sated from the huge family feast; the stuffed couple retired to their bedroom for a midday nap.

Word: Satellite
Meaning: a man made device used to collect information while orbiting around the Earth; moon; or another planet
Example: A satellite recorded images of the house from way up in the sky and displayed them on the website.

Word: Satiate
Meaning: to satisfy fully
Example: Hopefully this feast I am preparing will satiate your hunger.

Word: Satiety
Meaning: the state of being satisfied or full after consuming food
Example: Sarah reached satiety and felt content after tasting every item on the buffet.

Word: Satire
Meaning: a literary work or device that makes fun of its subject
Example: The latest biography of the president is a satire designed to mock the leader.

Word: Satirical
Meaning: having the qualities of mockery; sarcasm and ridicule
Example: After reading the satirical piece of literature; I didn’t know whether to laugh at the sarcastic remarks or feel angry at it.

Word: Satirize
Meaning: cleverly make fun of something
Example: The poet looked for a way to satirize the boring poem and give it a more humorous appeal.

Word: Satisfaction
Meaning: gaining joy or happiness from an achievement
Example: Nothing brought her more satisfaction that pulling perfectly baked cupcakes from the oven.

Word: Satisfactorily
Meaning: in a way that is adequate and meets expectations
Example: Both students completed their tests satisfactorily and used their high scores to apply for top colleges.

Word: Satisfactory
Meaning: adequate; satisfactorily acceptable
Example: A satisfactory number of contestants must register for the contest in order for it to take place.

Word: Satisfactory
Meaning: acceptable or good enough; meeting all requirements
Example: Though her test scores were satisfactory; the test taker was sad she didn’t make a 100.

Word: Satisfied
Meaning: content and okay with the way things are
Example: The teacher was not satisfied with her student’s work; so she asked him to redo the inferior essay.

Word: Satisfy
Meaning: to be of acceptable standards
Example: In order to graduate from her high school; Lily had to take one more math class to satisfy the graduation requirements.

Word: Satrap
Meaning: a local governor in the ancient Persian Empire
Example: A satrap that served under King Darius were responsible for governing a Persian province.

Word: Saturate
Meaning: to fill something to the utmost capacity
Example: The company hopes to saturate the market with their products so consumers will think of its brand first.

Word: Saturation
Meaning: to fill something or a place so completely that no more can be added
Example: Because of market saturation; it would be silly to build another coffee shop in the area that has ten already.

Word: Saturnine
Meaning: sad and solemn
Example: The dog’s eyes became saturnine whenever he was left at home alone.

Word: Satyr
Meaning: a creature of Greek mythology composed of a man and a goat that inhabits the wilderness and is known for its fondness of wine and women
Example: Taking the form of a satyr; the mighty Zeus took the woman to be his own and retreated into the woods.

Word: Sauciness
Meaning: something said rudely or in an ill-mannered way
Example: As a result of the sauciness in his voice; the teacher sent the teenager to the principal’s office.

Word: Saucy
Meaning: rude and cocky; usually in a lively way
Example: With a saucy attitude; the waitress was able to engage and irritate customers at the same time.

Word: Saunter
Meaning: to walk at a relaxed speed
Example: Once it started to rain; we decided to saunter through the park another day.

Word: Sauntered
Meaning: strolled at a unhurried pace
Example: The teenage boy sauntered through the school as though he did not have a care in the world.

Word: Saute
Meaning: to fry food quickly in hot oil
Example: In order to saute the vegetables; the chef quickly increased the temperature on the stove and dropped in a pat of butter.

Word: Savage
Meaning: out of control; untamed
Example: The savage attack left the woman fighting for her life.

Word: Savagely
Meaning: to do something brutally and viciously
Example: When the dog incessantly barked; the hot-tempered man savagely beat the dog resulting in a bloody mess.

Word: Savagery
Meaning: an exploit involving brutality and viciousness
Example: Judge Watson handed the defendants the maximum sentence under Virginia law due to the savagery of the crimes.

Word: Savanna
Meaning: a big area of grassy land that has few trees and is generally found in South America and Africa
Example: With few trees on the savanna; the tourists had little escape from the heat.

Word: Savannah
Meaning: an area covered with fields of grass and a few trees
Example: While traveling across the savannah; the tribe realized this would be a perfect place to shoot the roaming game for its meat.

Word: Savant
Meaning: one who knows a great deal about a specific topic
Example: Although Jason is mildly retarded; he is also a chess savant who is considered to be one of the best players in the world.

Word: Save
Meaning: keep and store up (something; especially money for future use
Example: In order to save money; the family decided to stop going out for coffee and make it at home.

Word: Savoir-faire 
Meaning: knowing how to act under a variety of circumstances
Example: Rick’s savoir-faire allowed him to fit in everywhere he went.

Word: Savor
Meaning: to take delight in something for a long period of time
Example: The team will savor the championship victory for years to come.

Word: Savory
Meaning: having an appealing smell or taste
Example: I could not stop eating the savory soup.

Word: Savvy
Meaning: sharp; perceptive
Example: Your help desk agent should be savvy about all the features of your company’s software.

Word: Saxicolous
Meaning: growing or living among rocks
Example: Lichen is a saxicolous organism that arises from algae and thrives on fresh rock.

Word: Saying
Meaning: a simple statement that expresses some kind of truth or wisdom
Example: The saying ‘love is blind’ means that people who are in love often ignore things that are very obvious to everyone else.

Word: Scabbard
Meaning: a case that shields a dagger or sword
Example: The pirate pulled his sword out of the scabbard attached to his belt.

Word: Scabrous
Meaning: lewd and obscene
Example: The scabrous magazine was regarded as a lecherous and vulgar publication.

Word: Scaffold
Meaning: a temporary structure that holds laborers while they work on a building
Example: The painting crew will earn over fifty thousand dollars for the job; but must pay three thousand for the new scaffold to hold the laborers.

Word: Scaffolding
Meaning: a system of temporary structures that hold laborers while they work on a building
Example: Three stories of scaffolding towered over the side of the building while the final coat of paint was being spread.

Word: Scalawag
Meaning: an individual who causes trouble
Example: Late last night; the neighborhood scalawag decorated the school with toilet paper.

Word: Scald
Meaning: to be hurt by a scorching fluid
Example: Even the smallest splash of hot oil on my skin would scald it causing severe burns.

Word: Scale
Meaning: an instrument used to measure the weight of something
Example: A scale was used to measure how many pounds each wooden block is.

Word: Scam
Meaning: an immoral way of cheating someone out of their money or causing unsafe situations
Example: After asking for a large sum of money; I knew the job was a scam because the people did not represent the company.

Word: Scamp
Meaning: A playfully mischievous child
Example: While his parents were sleeping; the little scamp snuck into the cabinet and ate all of the cookies.

Word: Scamper
Meaning: to move quickly with light steps
Example: Watching the squirrel scamper up the sidewalk was the highlight of the toddler’s day.

Word: Scan
Meaning: to look at something carefully in order to find something
Example: As he continued to scan the horizon; the hunter was able to spot a flock of geese in the distance.

Word: Scandal
Meaning: an event that causes public outrage
Example: The tax credit scandal led to the arrest of a high profile CEO and his shady accountant.

Word: Scandalize
Meaning: to shock someone by doing something horrifying or immoral
Example: The nun’s marriage to the priest was enough news to scandalize the entire town.

Word: Scandalous
Meaning: an action or event that is considered outrageous or indecent
Example: Senator Sill refused to answer the reporter’s question about his scandalous behavior last month.

Word: Scant
Meaning: a tiny amount
Example: We have to ration the water because we only have a scant amount.

Word: Scantling
Meaning: a small portion of something
Example: Because it is strong and very expensive; a scantling of saffron goes a long way in the couscous.

Word: Scanty
Meaning: less than what is needed
Example: Since the airline lost two of my bags; I have scanty clothing for my vacation.

Word: Scapegoat
Meaning: a person or group made to bear the blame for others or to suffer in their place
Example: Because the detectives could not catch the real killer; they arrested a vagrant as a scapegoat to calm the worried public.

Word: Scar
Meaning: to permanently wound something or leave a permanent mark on it
Example: The gash I received on my leg during the war will scar me for life; healing but always leaving a mark on my skin.

Word: Scarce
Meaning: limited or sparse in number
Example: Food was scarce during the Holocaust because many people were not allowed to grow their own food and had to ration what they had.

Word: Scarcity
Meaning: a lack of something needed
Example: The scarcity of water in the small town is destroying the livelihoods of most of the farmers.

Word: Scare
Meaning: to frighten or make someone afraid
Example: On Halloween; the teens dressed like spooky ghost and goblins to scare the younger children in the neighborhood.

Word: Scarify
Meaning: to make scratches or small cuts into something
Example: If you scarify a seed by cutting it before planting; it will grow better in the ground.

Word: Scarlet
Meaning: a bright red color
Example: Because she loves the color red; Tammy wears a scarlet dress to every event she attends.

Word: Scathe
Meaning: to harm or injure
Example: The would-be killer attempted to stab his ex-wife but got away before he could scathe her.

Word: Scathing
Meaning: extremely severe or harsh
Example: The scathing remarks brought tears to my eyes.

Word: Scatter
Meaning: to throw in various and often random directions
Example: The old woman sitting in the park would occasionally scatter birdseed around her to attract the fowl in the area.

Word: Scavenger
Meaning: someone who scavenges; especially one who searches through rubbish for food or useful things
Example: The vulture is considered a scavenger because it searches for dead prey.

Word: Scenario
Meaning: a situation that could possibly happen
Example: Before we launch our product; we need to have a solution for every scenario that could arise.

Word: Scene
Meaning: the location or site where something occurs
Example: Right after the accident; police arrived on the scene to help the crash victims.

Word: Scenery
Meaning: the natural features of the land
Example: They newly engaged couple stood at the top of the Grand Canyon and took in the dazzling orange scenery.

Word: Scenic
Meaning: describing a view of nature that is beautiful or impressive
Example: The White Cliffs of Dover are widely regarded as one of England’s most scenic locations; with a unique view that you won’t find almost anywhere else.

Word: Scent
Meaning: a distinctive; often pleasant smell
Example: I could not identify the sweet scent that lead me into my Grandma’s kitchen until I walked in to discover her baking bread.

Word: Schadenfreude
Meaning: the sense of enjoyment that comes upon hearing about the problems of others
Example: Summer was a strange woman who took joy in the suffering of others and always experienced schadenfreude when her friends were miserable.

Word: Schematic
Meaning: a drawing or sketch using abstract; graphic symbols that shows how a system works in a simple way
Example: While producing the schematic drawing of the Graystone Building; the architect began to assign tasks to start the project.

Word: Scheme 
Meaning: a sneaky plan
Example: The man’s scheme to rob the old lady was ruined when one of her neighbors caught him trying to break into her home.

Word: Scheming
Meaning: making underhanded or sneaky plans
Example: Myra suspected that the whispering children where probably scheming and planning a weekend sleepover.

Word: Schism
Meaning: a split or separation within a group or organization
Example: The schism between my two best friends put me in the awkward position of having to choose one over the other.

Word: Schizophrenic
Meaning: a person suffering from schizophrenia; a mental disorder characterized by abnormal social behavior and failure to understand what is real
Example: The therapist specialized in creating behavior modification plans for people with schizophrenic disorders.

Word: Schlep
Meaning: to haul or carry something heavy or awkward
Example: The hikers had to schlep down the mountain carrying their heavy bags and other gear.

Word: Schlump
Meaning: a lazy and sloppily dressed person who does everything in a slow or dull way
Example: The lazy schlump sleeps in class when he does show up and rarely ever participates in discussions.

Word: Scholar
Meaning: a highly educated person who attends school and studies
Example: As a lifelong scholar; the specialist spent most of his years buried in academic studies.

Word: Scholarly
Meaning: academic; intellectual
Example: The scholarly student spent hours studying each day.

Word: Scholastic
Meaning: related to academic studies or education
Example: The teacher gave out scholastic awards to the students who worked the hardest during the school year.

Word: Scientific Method
Meaning: a longstanding procedure in science in which one observes something; forms a hypothesis; experiments on their hypothesis; and modifies it according to the result
Example: The professor described how to use the scientific method to form a hypothesis and then test it out with an experiment.

Word: Scintilla
Meaning: a small amount of something
Example: Because it has strong flavor; the recipe called for a scintilla of sesame oil.

Word: Scintillating
Meaning: remarkably witty
Example: The host’s scintillating conversations with celebrities have earned her numerous awards.

Word: Scoff
Meaning: to sneer or laugh with scorn
Example: The rude little rich girl thought it was fun to scoff at the poor children at her school.

Word: Scoffed
Meaning: laughed at with disdain or scorn
Example: The billionaire heiress scoffed at the idea of eating a peanut butter sandwich.

Word: Scold
Meaning: to strongly criticize
Example: Female dogs sometimes scold their puppies by nipping on their ears.

Word: Scope
Meaning: the extent or range of which something is deals with
Example: The manager got off task and asked questions that were outside the scope of the current meeting.

Word: Scorch
Meaning: to burn the surface something
Example: Janine is a horrible cook and tends to scorch anything she puts in a frying pan.

Word: Scorching
Meaning: extremely hot
Example: On the scorching hot day; all the cowboy could think about was a drink of cool water.

Word: Scorn
Meaning: to show disdain or contempt for something or someone
Example: Even though Warren is a billionaire; he does not scorn anyone and treats all people equally.

Word: Scorn
Meaning: disrespect or disapproval for someone or something
Example: Though he did not mean to scorn the girl; his rejection came off as extremely offensive.

Word: Scorned
Meaning: rejected or rebuffed
Example: The snobby woman scorned the man’s offer to take her out on a date with a firm “no.”

Word: Scoundrel
Meaning: a bad; dishonest person
Example: The scoundrel stole my purse and ran off with it.

Word: Scour
Meaning: to scrub hard
Example: My mother made us scour the bathroom before our guests arrived.

Word: Scourge
Meaning: a persistent pest; illness; or source of trouble
Example: For several years; the drug violence in the border city was such a scourge on the population that it was named the murder capital of the world.

Word: Scowl
Meaning: a frown of anger or displeasure
Example: Whenever my husband looks at our noisy neighbors; he has a scowl on his face.

Word: Scrag
Meaning: a bony or scrawny person or animal
Example: Starving in the streets; the bony scrag begged for food from those passing by her famished body.

Word: Scraggly
Meaning: used to describe a person who is very thin and bony looking
Example: The prisoner of war’s scraggly body weighed less than a hundred pounds when he was released from captivity.

Word: Scramble
Meaning: to move quickly or frantically to make something happen
Example: The frantic team continued to scramble to make a goal but came up short at the end.

Word: Scrap
Meaning: a left over piece of something that isn’t of any use
Example: Every small scrap of paper found on the floor is put into a recycling bin on the 4th floor.

Word: Scrape
Meaning: the abrasive action of rubbing against something (can be voluntary or involuntary) that results in the removal of dirt; skin; etc.
Example: When the little girl feel off her tricycle; she fell on her face and got a long; jagged scrape on her chin.

Word: Scrawny 
Meaning: extremely thin and frail
Example: After going without food for a long time; the man looked pale and scrawny.

Word: Screech
Meaning: to give out a loud; piercing sound
Example: Hearing the eagle’s loud screech from above; the rabbit hurried out of sight.

Word: Screenplay
Meaning: the story script and shooting directions prepared for motion-picture production
Example: The director followed the directions of the screenplay and instructed the actors on where to stand.

Word: Screw
Meaning: to fasten or tighten something in place by turning it
Example: The homeowner tried to screw in a lightbulb by turning it several times clockwise.

Word: Scribble
Meaning: to write or draw something quickly or without much focus
Example: I was bored in class; so I drew a little scribble on the back of my worksheet to pass the time; though I can’t remember what I drew.

Word: Scribe 
Meaning: a person who writes for a living
Example: In the old days; uneducated people would often hire a scribe to write down their family histories.

Word: Scrimmage
Meaning: a practice game which does not count on a team's record
Example: Both football teams looked forward to their preseason scrimmage as they needed the practice badly.

Word: Scrooge
Meaning: a gloomy grump
Example: The young boy was being such a scrooge when he complained and made grouchy comments to his friends.

Word: Scrounge
Meaning: to get things (usually of little value) by asking for them instead of buying them
Example: At the garage sale; I had a customer who wanted to scrounge for free items.

Word: Scrub
Meaning: to rub a service very hard; usually with a brush or some other object
Example: The maid tried to scrub the dirt and grime off the floor; but couldn’t make it white again.

Word: Scrumptious
Meaning: delicious; mouthwatering
Example: Placing her nose up to the apple pie; the pastry chef got a whiff of the scrumptious smelling tart.

Word: Scruples
Meaning: internal factors that prevent a person from behaving in a certain manner
Example: Janet has no scruples about mistreating people who mistreat her.

Word: Scrupulous
Meaning: very careful about doing something correctly
Example: Will is a scrupulous employee who always checks his work for accuracy.

Word: Scrutinize
Meaning: examine or inspect closely
Example: Because of recent terror attacks; the airline screeners closely scrutinize all bags that are going on board airplanes.

Word: Scrutiny
Meaning: careful examination of something or someone
Example: If you want to fly on an airplane; you should be prepared to deal with scrutiny from the airline personnel.

Word: Scuffle
Meaning: rough; disorderly fight or struggle at close quarters
Example: In order to downplay the actual fight; the siblings told their parents the reasons for the bloody noses and torn clothing was due to a small scuffle they had a few minutes ago.

Word: Scullery
Meaning: a small room; next to a kitchen; where washing up and other domestic chores are done
Example: The scullery maid always washes dishes and preps for meals.

Word: Sculpture
Meaning: a piece of art created by carving or chiseling away wood or stone
Example: Taking great care while chiseling the block of ice; the artist believed that this would be his greatest sculpture yet.

Word: Scummy
Meaning: dirty; nasty
Example: Because the kitchen floor was so scummy; the maid had to scrub it with bleach for several hours.

Word: Scurrilous
Meaning: something that is said or done to ruin a person’s reputation
Example: Jeremy got me fired by telling my boss scurrilous lies about me.

Word: Scurry
Meaning: to move rapidly using small steps
Example: The mouse tried to scurry under the door.

Word: Scurry
Meaning: to move hurriedly or quickly
Example: The mice continued to scurry across the floor; moving quickly as not to be caught by the mouse.

Word: Scurvy
Meaning: deficiency of vitamin C
Example: Many sailors died of scurvy due to lack of access to nutritional food.

Word: Scuttle
Meaning: to scamper or dash
Example: Because I was running late; I had to scuttle through the airport parking lot.

Word: Scythe
Meaning: a tool with a long curved blade at the end of a long pole; used for cutting grass or grain by hand
Example: The farmer expertly guided the scythe through the wheat fields; collecting the harvest.

Word: Seafaring
Meaning: sailing through waters on a regular basis
Example: Seafaring merchants during the Renaissance would often travel throughout Europe and Asia to bring new inaccessible products to foreign customers.

Word: Seal
Meaning: to fasten something shut
Example: Once we seal the envelope closed; the letter is safe to put in the mailbox to be delivered to the recipient.

Word: Seam
Meaning: the edge where two pieces of material are stitched together
Example: A seam of the undershirt was quite noticeable through the thin flimsy silk blouse.

Word: Seamless
Meaning: smooth and without interruption
Example: His seamless execution of the challenging task surprised his coworkers and caught the attention of the higher-ups.

Word: Seamstress
Meaning: a woman who’s profession is to sew and alter clothing
Example: Leaving her job as a waitress; the young woman opened a tailoring shop and became a full-time seamstress.

Word: Sear
Meaning: to char; scorch; or burn the surface of something with quick heat
Example: The chef placed the steak in the hot pan to sear the outside.

Word: Search
Meaning: to look for something that can’t be found at the moment
Example: I continued to search for my lost keys; not realizing that they were in my hand the whole time.

Word: Season
Meaning: to add flavor to something
Example: Season the stone soup by adding herbs and other spices to the mixture.

Word: Seasonal
Meaning: pertaining to a particular time of the year
Example: Seasonal decorations adorned the restaurant tables at Christmas time with holly leaves and hanging greenery.

Word: Seasoned
Meaning: to be skilled at something based on experience
Example: Only a seasoned teacher could create an environment for learning with the wild and defiant students.

Word: Seat
Meaning: something that one sits on
Example: Pulling out a seat for his wife; Ben fixed the chair so that she would be comfortable.

Word: Secede
Meaning: to withdraw from an organization; alliance; or association
Example: Several members of the motorcycle club have made the decision to secede from the brotherhood and start a new organization.

Word: Seclude
Meaning: to separate from people
Example: The monks have made the decision to seclude themselves from society as a whole.

Word: Seclusion 
Meaning: the circumstance of being isolated from others
Example: The dog will be placed in seclusion until it can be examined for rabies.

Word: Second Nature
Meaning: something that is done so often by one person it is normal for them; though typically not normal for everyone
Example: It may be second nature for a soldier to be aware of his surroundings at all times; but many of us regular civilians ignore the environment.

Word: Secondary Source
Meaning: information about a subject or event that is not gained first hand; but later on
Example: The book about 1985 World War II is a secondary source written after the fact.

Word: Secondary
Meaning: coming after something else that is usually more important
Example: Instead of primary red; blue; and yellow; only secondary colors were used on the walls.

Word: Secondhand
Meaning: describes goods that have been passed down after being owned by one other person
Example: Tiff owns a secondhand store where people come to buy used items that are still in good condition.

Word: Secondment
Meaning: a temporary period of time in which an employee is transferred to a new position or organization
Example: The department head was required to find a couple of replacement workers since two permanent employees were on secondment in a different department.

Word: Secrecy
Meaning: the act of keeping something secretly hidden
Example: Judicial secrecy kept the final verdict under wraps until the official press conference.

Word: Secret
Meaning: something that is not to be known or seen by others
Example: Approaching the secret lair; the knight crept quietly as to not awaking the sleeping dragon.

Word: Secretary
Meaning: an office assistant; usually in charge of records
Example: Trying to impress the new secretary caused the office manager to spill coffee all over himself during the briefing.

Word: Secrete
Meaning: to produce and give off
Example: An octopus can secrete ink to ward off prey.

Word: Secretion
Meaning: the process of releasing a substance (from an animal’s body)
Example: When the woman reduced her sugar intake; her body’s insulin secretion lowered as well.

Word: Secretive
Meaning: describes someone who hides their intentions; thoughts; and actions from other people
Example: Secretive sorority sisters whispered in the hallway about new pledges and upcoming events.

Word: Sect
Meaning: a small religious or political group that separates from a larger group. Sects have many of the same beliefs and practices as the original group; but often have some different doctrines
Example: Our family are Mormons; which is a sect of Christianity.

Word: Sectarian
Meaning: adhering strongly to a certain doctrine or sect
Example: The sectarian preacher would not obey any laws that contrasted with his religious beliefs.

Word: Section
Meaning: part or segment of something larger
Example: Each section of the park has a map that shows you which segment of the square you are standing.

Word: Sectional
Meaning: pertaining to a specific section or segment of a larger group
Example: The U.S. Civil War was a sectional dispute; with the country being divided almost in half.

Word: Sectionalism
Meaning: the condition of being focused on a specific section or sphere
Example: It was Southern sectionalism that divided the nation and started the U.S. Civil War.

Word: Sector
Meaning: a specific part of the country; economy; or a company
Example: Our nonprofit sector is in need of a donation drive to boost funds.

Word: Secular 
Meaning: not driven by religious principles
Example: Since Bill was not a spiritual man; he went out of his way to attend a university with a secular focus.

Word: Secure
Meaning: to attach something soundly
Example: Forgetting to secure his bike with the chain; the boy was extremely disappointed to find that it was stolen overnight.

Word: Security
Meaning: a private police force that is put in charge of guarding a person or a place
Example: Armed security was hired to stop robbers from holding up the bank.

Word: Sedan
Meaning: a two or four door vehicle that is made to hold at least four people
Example: Purchasing a used four-door sedan was more reasonable than a buying a jeep since we live in a Seattle.

Word: Sedate
Meaning: to soothe or calm
Example: The shot should sedate the patient and allow him to sleep peacefully.

Word: Sedately
Meaning: calmly; without excessive emotion
Example: Because he was tired; everything he did was done sedately.

Word: Sedative
Meaning: an agent or drug that sedates; having a calming or soothing effect; or inducing sleep
Example: She was so upset at the loss of her husband; that the doctor gave her a sedative to calm her.

Word: Sedentary
Meaning: staying or living in one place
Example: Since the birth of my daughter; I have been enjoying a sedentary existence at home.

Word: Seder
Meaning: a Jewish ritual dinner that marks the beginning of the Jewish holiday of Passover
Example: A rabbi presided over the Seder; beginning with sanctification and a blessing being recited over wine.

Word: Sediment
Meaning: collection of small particles
Example: The apple cider had sediment in the bottom as part of the natural settling process.

Word: Sedition
Meaning: the act of encouraging opposition to authority
Example: The rebels were arrested for sedition when they protested outside of the dictator’s palace.

Word: Seduction
Meaning: the act of enticing or attracting someone
Example: The seduction of the now entranced audience was complete when the lead singer began her soulful crooning.

Word: Seductive
Meaning: tempting; alluring
Example: Seductive plates full of scrumptious shrimp and mouthwatering steak made the guests mouth water.

Word: Sedulous
Meaning: diligent; hard working and persistent
Example: Even though you completely destroy the ant bed time after time; those sedulous ants will continue to go right back to work rebuilding it.

Word: Seed
Meaning: reproductive grains of a plant that are used to grow another plant
Example: Covering the field with netting stopped the birds from eating the seed from the rows.

Word: Seek
Meaning: to look for something
Example: The police continue to seek the murder suspect and are setting up road blocks all over the city.

Word: Seemingly
Meaning: apparently; appearing to be
Example: The seemingly normal couple actually had many hidden secrets.

Word: Seemly
Meaning: appropriate or suitable
Example: The teacher quietly explained that throwing a temper tantrum is not seemly behavior for a fourth grade student.

Word: Seep
Meaning: to slowly flow through a small opening
Example: After hitting the bump in the road; oil began to seep out of my car’s radiator.

Word: Seer
Meaning: a person who claims to be able to see the future
Example: Being a seer; the man’s wife knew that destruction would befall their family the following week.

Word: Seethe 
Meaning: to be in an emotionally frantic condition; usually one rooted in rage or anger
Example: My mother will seethe for weeks if anyone touches her collectible dolls.

Word: Seething
Meaning: intensely hot; boiling with anger.
Example: The cook dashed some salt into the kettle of seething water.

Word: Segment
Meaning: one part of something that is divided into sections
Example: Smokers were the only segment of the society that were targeted by the tax increase.

Word: Segregate 
Meaning: to place apart because of real or perceived differences
Example: Airlines segregate passengers into economy and first class so they can charge higher ticket prices for premium seats.

Word: Segregation
Meaning: setting apart or separation
Example: Feminists complain about segregation between men and women in the workplace.

Word: Segue
Meaning: to fluidly change from one form or situation to another
Example: As the song was coming to an end; it would segue into the next tune without hesitating with silence.

Word: Seismic
Meaning: Caused by or related to an earthquake
Example: Seismic tests were conducted to determine the force of the earthquake.

Word: Seize
Meaning: to gain through forcible means
Example: If you do not watch the dog; he will try and seize the toddler’s lollipop.

Word: Seizure
Meaning: The capturing of something by force
Example: All of the stolen goods taken in the seizure are being stored in the police lock-up.

Word: Selcouth
Meaning: interestingly strange or uncommon
Example: The selcouth documentary was so unique that we couldn’t stop watching it.

Word: Seldom
Meaning: hardly ever
Example: Taking cocaine is seldom credited with improving a person’s intelligence.

Word: Select
Meaning: to choose something
Example: Taylor gets to select tonight’s movie since I chose the last one.

Word: Selection
Meaning: a choice or range of different options
Example: My sister and I had a hard time agreeing on a movie selection; so we ended up renting two different ones.

Word: Selective
Meaning: intentionally choosing some things and not others
Example: Being overly selective in love caused the prudish woman to end up an old maid.

Word: Self-assured
Meaning: showing confidence in one’s self and your own abilities/skills
Example: Confident and self-assured; there is nothing the man thought he couldn’t accomplish.

Word: Self-Concept
Meaning: the image one has of him or herself
Example: Many people have an inaccurate self-concept of themselves; thinking they are not worth as much as they really are.

Word: Self-conscious
Meaning: uncomfortably over-conscious of oneself; worried or nervous by what other people think of you
Example: During her speech; her body language portrayed her as self-conscious.

Word: Self-control
Meaning: the ability to manage one’s own desires and behavior
Example: Sheryl wanted to eat another donut but used self-control instead.

Word: Self-discipline
Meaning: the ability to control one’s emotions and overcome one’s weaknesses
Example: Lacking self-discipline; Kellyanne continued to overeat even though she knew she should stop.

Word: Self-evident
Meaning: obvious and clear; not needing any explanation
Example: The teacher’s instructions were self-evident; so no students asked any questions about the assignment.

Word: Self-explanatory
Meaning: completely understandable; plain and clear
Example: Once the science teacher distributed the worksheet with explicit steps and diagrams on it; the students felt comfortable with the self-explanatory lab.

Word: Self-preservation
Meaning: a natural instinct to protect oneself from harm or death
Example: The hero forgot about self-preservation and jumped into the fire to save the children.

Word: Self-righteous
Meaning: believing that you are better; superior; and more moral than other people
Example: With a self-righteous outlook; the snobby lady looked down on others from her moral high ground.

Word: Selfish
Meaning: to think of oneself
Example: Since he was known to be a selfish man; Darren never paid his child support even though he had plenty of money.

Word: Selfless
Meaning: thinking only of others and not of oneself
Example: A selfless individual often donates a fair sum of their money to charity even though they could use that money for themselves.

Word: Selflessness
Meaning: the act of thinking of others instead of yourself
Example: Her selflessness was displayed when Marta ran onto the tracks of an oncoming train to rescue the helpless toddler.

Word: Selves
Meaning: essential beings or personalities of people
Example: The two children seem to always to find their selves in trouble when they spend too much time together.

Word: Semantics
Meaning: the message or meaning behind a term; phrase; or sentence
Example: When you made a profanity-filled rant about me; the semantics were pretty clear.

Word: Semaphore
Meaning: a mechanical gadget with arm; lights; or flags that is used as a signal
Example: The railroad’s semaphore was broken; causing the car to miss the warning and come over the tracks.

Word: Semblance
Meaning: an outward appearance of something; an assumed appearance
Example: Once my divorce has been finalized; my life can return to a semblance of normality.

Word: Semi-final
Meaning: a game or round just before the final match
Example: The top two teams in each division will play off in a semi-final followed by a final to decide the winners.

Word: Semiannual
Meaning: Happening twice a year
Example: Semiannual fishing tournaments are held in both March and July.

Word: Semicircle
Meaning: a half circle shape
Example: Sitting in a semicircle of mismatched chairs; the arc of kindergarteners waited for their teacher to start the lesson.

Word: Semiconductor
Meaning: a substance that is in between a conductor and an insulator; making it a good medium for controlling electrical current
Example: Silicon is the best known semi-conductor and forms the basis for most integrated circuits.

Word: Seminal
Meaning: important and highly influential on later developments
Example: His award-winning performance was a seminal event for the college.

Word: Seminar
Meaning: a training session usually lasting a few hours
Example: Debbie and Lila only have enough time to attend the seminar on flipping houses instead of the detailed two-day workshop on the same topic.

Word: Seminary
Meaning: a theological school that prepares students to become priests and pastors
Example: The seminary’s academic courses range between traditional theology classes and practical internships.

Word: Semiotics
Meaning: the study of signs and symbols; especially as means of language or communication
Example: The semiotics of his body language revealed he was lying.

Word: Sempiternal
Meaning: everlasting; having no start or no end
Example: The girl’s parents tried to explain that images you put online are sempiternal and can last forever.

Word: Senate
Meaning: a body of government that represents a specific area and reports to the national governing body; usually the group that writes and passes laws
Example: The senate met to discuss implementing new laws against vandalism in the community.

Word: Senectitude
Meaning: old age; the last stage of life
Example: Although she is well into her senectitude; the eighty-year-old woman tries to combat her age with exercise.

Word: Senescence
Meaning: old age
Example: My grandfather said the best part of senescence is watching his grandchildren play.

Word: Senescent
Meaning: growing old; aging
Example: Our senescent dog is almost fifteen years old and is starting to suffer in his old age.

Word: Senile
Meaning: confused or memory loss as a result of old age
Example: I think my Grandma is going senile because she keeps forgetting her daughter's name.

Word: Senility
Meaning: the physical and mental decline connected to old age
Example: Dementia; also known as senility; is seen in elderly individuals whose mental states have started to decline.

Word: Seniority
Meaning: refers to having a high ranking in an organization due to having been there for a longer period of time than others
Example: Employees with seniority were given project preference over those who were new to the company.

Word: Sensation
Meaning: a feeling picked up by one of the five senses
Example: The burning sensation in the man’s eye only seemed to intensify as he flushed it with water.

Word: Sensational
Meaning: astonishing and unbelievable
Example: After working on the woman’s hair for over eight hours; her sensational hairstyle was admired and jealous by many women who saw it.

Word: Sensationalism
Meaning: the presentation of stories by a journalist in a way that excites people emotionally; often at the expense of the truth or honesty
Example: Feeding off the celebrity’s latest scandal; the article was full of sensationalism and exaggerations.

Word: Sense of humor
Meaning: having the skill to notice wit and funniness
Example: With John’s good sense of humor; he was able to make us laugh all night long with his hilarious stories and jokes.

Word: Sense
Meaning: the bodies ability to experience sight; sound; touch; taste; or smell
Example: When Beethoven started composing music his sense of hearing was poor and got worse until he was completely deaf.

Word: Sense
Meaning: to feel or know something
Example: Although she couldn’t see the man hiding in the shadows; June could sense that someone was there.

Word: Sense
Meaning: to detect or recognize
Example: After entering the spooky house; the medium could sense several spirits moving about the room.

Word: Senseless
Meaning: pointless; done for no clear reason
Example: The family is devastated by the senseless murder of their young son who was at the wrong place at the wrong time.

Word: Sensibility
Meaning: one’s ability to feel or be aware of something
Example: President Lincoln’s sensibility about the situation helped him make right decisions regarding the abolition of slavery.

Word: Sensible 
Meaning: having the ability to make sound decisions
Example: If you are sensible; you will not use your credit cards unnecessarily.

Word: Sensitive
Meaning: highly responsive or reactive
Example: The sensitive child demanded much attention from her parents as she was always getting upset over small and trivial things.

Word: Sensitivity
Meaning: the tendency to be easily upset; influenced; changed; or damaged by outside factors
Example: Because of her sensitivity to sunlight; the woman has to protect her fragile skin.

Word: Sensory
Meaning: associated with the senses
Example: The music at the concert was so loud it felt like a sensory attack.

Word: Sensual
Meaning: inducing pleasurable or erotic sensations
Example: The sensual couple’s massage was part of the honeymoon plans.

Word: Sensuous
Meaning: associated with the senses
Example: The hypnotist’s sensuous voice was very relaxing.

Word: Sententious
Meaning: using few words; often in a preachy manner
Example: Because the minister was in a hurry to get home to watch the football game; he gave a sententious sermon about the importance of valuing time.

Word: Sentience
Meaning: awareness and the capacity to sense and feel; particularly pleasure and pain
Example: His sentience failing him in the dark; the man was no longer able to see the corridor or decide which way to turn.

Word: Sentient
Meaning: being able to feel or sense things
Example: Humans are not the only sentient beings; elephants are very emotional and perceptive mammals as well.

Word: Sentiment
Meaning: a thought; view; or attitude; an opinion
Example: The sentiment in his love poem was so touching that it brought tears to her eyes.

Word: Sentimental 
Meaning: having excessive emotions about certain things or people
Example: Jan becomes sentimental whenever she thinks about her deceased parents.

Word: Sentinel 
Meaning: one whose job is to keep watch and protect
Example: The armed sentinel stood outside of the meeting room to make sure no one interrupted the two world leaders.

Word: Sentry
Meaning: a solider whose job is to stand watch and guard against intruders
Example: Standing at the gate; the Iraqi sentry guarded the entrance to the embassy.

Word: Separate
Meaning: to break something up or divide it into parts
Example: The teacher tried to separate the fighting students but couldn’t get the two boys apart.

Word: Separately
Meaning: occurring on an individual basis
Example: The manager interviewed each candidate separately in an effort to determine who would be the best fit for the position.

Word: Separation of Powers
Meaning: the political system in which the power of the government is split into different branches to avoid consolidation
Example: The separation of powers in the American government divides the power of between three different branches.

Word: Separation
Meaning: disconnection or detachment
Example: Separation of Church and State allows the government to run without a connection to a particular religion.

Word: Separatist
Meaning: of the belief in full separation of a group from a larger whole (usually based on race; religion; culture; or ethnicity.)
Example: Separatist forces in the state worked to keep Muslims and Christians in different areas.

Word: Sepsis
Meaning: a dangerous medical condition in which bacteria is present in the blood system
Example: Bacteria in wounds can move into the bloodstream and lead to sepsis if not treated quickly.

Word: Septic
Meaning: infected or contaminated with disease-causing organisms
Example: After the wound became septic; it started oozing pus and turned green.

Word: Septuagenarian
Meaning: a person who is in the seventy to seventy-nine age range
Example: As she approached eighty; the septuagenarian wished that she could stay 79 forever.

Word: Sepulcher
Meaning: a place where one is buried
Example: When my mother dies; she will be placed in the family sepulcher alongside my father.

Word: Sepulchral
Meaning: extremely gloomy
Example: The siren would use her voice to lure sailors to their sepulchral deaths.

Word: Sequacious
Meaning: tending to follow; missing original thoughts or independence
Example: Because the girl was sequacious; she usually went along with the other students and never voiced a conflicting opinion.

Word: Sequel
Meaning: a movie or book that continues a tale
Example: The movie’s sequel picks up where its predecessor ended.

Word: Sequelae
Meaning: aftereffects of a disease or injury
Example: Fully recovered; the man had no aftereffects or sequelae six months after his surgery.

Word: Sequence
Meaning: arrangement of events in a specific order
Example: Switching up the sequence of the recipe steps caused the usually delicious brownies to turn out inedible.

Word: Sequent
Meaning: consecutive or something that is next
Example: When the old woman finished her transaction with the bank teller; the sequent person in line was waved up to the next teller.

Word: Sequential
Meaning: going in order from first to last
Example: Factoring in algebra is sequential and must be completed in order to get the correct answer.

Word: Sequester
Meaning: to be put away for a specific reason
Example: The people with the virus were told to sequester themselves at home to avoid spreading the illness.

Word: Seraph
Meaning: the highest ranking angel in the Bible
Example: Crying “holy; holy; holy”; the angelic seraph flew around the throne of God.

Word: Seraphic
Meaning: angelic and stunning
Example: When the children put on their angel costumes; they looked seraphic.

Word: Sere
Meaning: dry and withered
Example: The sere leaves that covered the ground were once healthy; but are now dry and brittle.

Word: Serenade 
Meaning: to perform a song for a special person
Example: More than anything my mother wants my father to serenade her by singing her favorite song at their anniversary dinner.

Word: Serendipity
Meaning:  the fact of finding pleasant or useful things by chance
Example: The lottery is something one wins by serendipity not by design.

Word: Serene
Meaning: calm; peaceful
Example: The quiet beach made a serene setting for the midnight wedding.

Word: Serenity
Meaning: untroubled; calm; and peaceful
Example: For the outdoorsman; there is no way to experience serenity better than enjoying nature.

Word: Serf
Meaning: a medieval peasant who was forced to work on a manor
Example: The main duty of the serf was to work in the fields; but he was also required to serve at his lord’s house at least three days a week.

Word: Serfdom
Meaning: the state of being a medieval peasant who was forced to work on a manor
Example: Feudal serfdom was similar to later century slavery in that serfs were not allowed to leave the manor in which they lived and worked.

Word: Sergeant
Meaning: a noncommissioned military officer ranking
Example: Moving up in the Air Force; the sergeant was looked to for guidance and mentorship from lower ranking officers.

Word: Serial
Meaning: describing a person who commits an act repetitively
Example: Each of the serial killer’s latest victims were blondes who worked in the downtown district.

Word: Seriatim
Meaning: relating to a series
Example: A seriatim schedule is key to staying organized and completing tasks in an orderly manner.

Word: Series
Meaning: a sequence or chain of people; things; or event
Example: A series of tropical storms rose up in the ocean; causing destruction one after the other.

Word: Serious
Meaning: requiring careful thought and deep consideration
Example: I thought you were joking about how much weight you’ve lost; but now I can see that you were serious.

Word: Sermon
Meaning: a speech or talk on a religious or moral subject
Example: The sermon was about forgiveness.

Word: Serpent
Meaning: a snake
Example: The little girl screamed as the serpent slithered past her leg.

Word: Serpentine
Meaning: marked by a twisting appearance; like the form of a serpent
Example: The serpentine lake twists through the region providing the entire area with water.

Word: Serrated
Meaning: having a row of sharp or tooth-like projections
Example: A serrated knife allowed the chef to saw the bread into slices.

Word: Serried
Meaning: rows of people or objects grouped together
Example: Grandfather’s garden is serried in five rows; but it is too overgrown to notice.

Word: Servant
Meaning: a person who performs working responsibilities for others
Example: As a house servant; the slave was responsible for indoor chores rather than field duties.

Word: Serve
Meaning: to work for or provide duties of service for someone else
Example: At the dinner party; the maître D’ appeared to serve the guest their food.

Word: Service
Meaning: work that is done for others as a business or an aid to others
Example: A much-needed service in the area; the teacher decided to pet-sit during the summer.

Word: Serviceable
Meaning: able to be serviced; examined; or repaired
Example: Thankfully; the car’s engine is serviceable and can be repaired instead of being replaced.

Word: Servile
Meaning: submissive; willing to serve others
Example: Some individuals are so servile that other people take advantage of their submissiveness.

Word: Servility
Meaning: eagerness to serve and please others
Example: The janitor’s servility caused her to go above and beyond to make her employer happy.

Word:  Servitude
Meaning: the situation in which one individual controls another person’s life
Example: After paying off his debts; the man was finally able to leave his life of servitude and work for himself.

Word: Sesquipedalian
Meaning: a very long word
Example: The word sesquipedalian defines itself by the amount of syllables it possesses.

Word: Sessile
Meaning: an organism that is immobile and cannot move
Example: The coma patient was sessile as she had not moved since she went into a coma a few years ago after the accident.

Word: Session
Meaning: a period of time designated for a specific purpose
Example: During the brief session; the committee members voted to increase funding for infrastructure.

Word: Set Forth
Meaning: to begin a trip or journey
Example: The heroes would set forth for the lands beyond their realm as soon as they had gathered the supplies they would need.

Word: Set out
Meaning: to begin a journey or start something
Example: The mountain climbers set out to reach the peak but were forced to turn around due to bad weather.

Word: Setback
Meaning: a reversal of progression
Example: The principal lost his job; creating a financial setback for a few months until he found another one.

Word: Settee
Meaning: a seat or bench with a back and armrests
Example: You might not want to purchase a white fabric settee if you have children because the furniture would get dirty and difficult to maintain.

Word: Setting
Meaning: the type of surroundings that something takes place in
Example: The setting of this book is the Industrial era; as the entire story takes place in that time frame and around that area.

Word: Settle
Meaning: to reach a decision or agreement
Example: The sisters couldn’t settle their argument; so their mother took the bike from both of them.

Word: Settlement
Meaning: a formal decision or agreement that settles a dispute
Example: Unable to reach a settlement through the use of a mediator; the separated couple hired new attorneys and prepared for court.

Word: Settler
Meaning: one who settles in a new location
Example: The traveling gypsy decided to become a settler by purchasing a home in Colorado.

Word: Sever
Meaning: to detach by cutting figuratively or literally
Example: National leaders may sever ties with other countries who do not properly negotiate trade with them.

Word: Several
Meaning: a number higher than two yet relatively low in number
Example: During her walk; the girl was able to pick up several lemons to make a gallon of fresh lemonade.

Word: Severance
Meaning: ending of employment
Example: Offering of the displaced workers severance packages is the least the company could do before shutting down operations.

Word: Severe
Meaning: very strong and intense
Example: The severe thunderstorm caused so much damage that recovery would take years.

Word: Severest
Meaning: the worst and harshest when compared to other severe events
Example: Devastating hurricanes pop up all the time; but the last storm was the severest this coast has ever seen.

Word: Severity
Meaning: the state of being strong and intense
Example: The severity of the bomb threat resulted in two students being expelled from school and placed in a juvenile detention center.

Word: Sew
Meaning: to create or repair by making stitches with a needle and thread
Example: The cut on her cheek was so deep that the doctor had to sew a few stitches to mend it together.

Word: Sexism
Meaning: gender discrimination and prejudice
Example: Unfortunately; sexism and other forms of discrimination towards women are still very common in the twenty first century.

Word: Sextet
Meaning: a musical piece written for six people to sing or six instruments to be played
Example:  With two altos; two sopranos and two bass; a sextet was written so everyone in the group could participate in the song.

Word: Sextuple
Meaning: to be or have six portions or people
Example: When the doctor scheduled the unhealthy man to a sextuple heart bypass surgery; the procedure would be dangerous since they would be fixing half a dozen arteries in the man’s chest.

Word: Shabbier
Meaning: looking older and more worn out than something else
Example: My dress was worn and tattered; but my sister’s gown was even shabbier than mine.

Word: Shabby
Meaning: in poor condition because of age or wear
Example: The college student’s apartment wasn’t what I would call chic; but it wasn’t shabby either.

Word: Shack
Meaning: a small building that is not put together very well
Example: The one room shack didn’t seem like much; but it was better than sleeping on the streets.

Word: Shackle
Meaning: anything that hinders an individual from doing what he or she wants to do
Example: The comedian referred to his wife as the shackle that prevented him from being with his dream girl.

Word: Shade
Meaning: covering from the sun
Example: Cala lilies love the shade and do not grow well in direct sunlight.

Word: Shadow
Meaning: to follow someone
Example: Since I want to become an attorney like my uncle; I sometimes shadow him at his firm.

Word: Shady
Meaning: sly and suspicious
Example: Every member of the secret round table meeting was either a shady mobster or a crooked politician.

Word: Shaft
Meaning: the long handle of a weapon or tool
Example: The shaft of the club was so rough that it rubbed a blister on the golfer’s hand.

Word: Shake a leg
Meaning: a phrase used to tell someone to start or do something in a hurry
Example: Grandma told the boys to ‘shake a leg’ and encouraged them to get a jumpstart on their chores.

Word: Shake up
Meaning: to greatly startle; shock; or upset someone
Example: The thunderous bell was just what it took to shake up the exhausted student sleeping at his desk.

Word: Shake
Meaning: to tremble or quiver
Example: The woman’s warm natured body would shake every time she felt the cool Chicago air nip and her nose.

Word: Shake
Meaning: to tremble or vibrate
Example: During the earthquake; the ground began to shake and gyrate violently.

Word: Shaken
Meaning: upset and unable to remain calm
Example: After the terrible car wreck; the shaken driver scrambled from the car trembling and in tears.

Word: Shakily
Meaning: unsteadily; wobblingly
Example: Taking the stage and slowly speaking into the mic; the nervous valedictorian shakily addressed his classmates.

Word: Shall
Meaning: an alternative for the word ‘will’ that tells what someone will do
Example: We shall go to breakfast at 8:00; if our cab arrives in time.

Word: Shall
Meaning: will have to; must
Example: The student shall overcome her fear of public speaking and give a speech at her graduation.

Word: Shallow
Meaning: uninterested in things that are serious or deep; seeing only what is noticeable
Example: A beauty pageant is a shallow contest in which people are judged mainly on their looks.

Word: Sham
Meaning: a fake; an imitation that purports to be genuine
Example: When we found out that the engagement was just a sham; we were very upset.

Word: Shaman
Meaning: a tribal figure that serves as a go-between for the physical and spiritual worlds
Example: The shaman of the tribe recommended that the girl not be buried immediately; as he wanted her spirit to have time to leave her body.

Word: Shambled
Meaning: to move with a slow; shuffling; awkward gait
Example: Moving at a slow and steady pace; the man shambled up the stairs to the guest bedroom.

Word: Shambles
Meaning: a state of disorder or chaos
Example: After the fraternity party; the house was in shambles.

Word: Shambolic
Meaning: untidy or muddled
Example: With so many lies and unbelievable stories during the election; many shambolic people couldn’t figure out who to vote for.

Word: Shame
Meaning: the hot; nauseating feeling that comes with making a bad decision or of fool of yourself
Example: The ballerina’s cheeks flushed with shame when she failed to land her jump during the dance recital.

Word: Shamefacedly
Meaning: in a way that shows a person is awkwardly embarrassed
Example: Once I had calmed down; I shamefacedly removed my ranting Facebook post from my timeline.

Word: Shameful
Meaning: causing disgrace or embarrassment
Example: Dumping 18 billion gallons of highly toxic chemicals into the Ecuadorean Amazon was one of the many shameful things that Chevron has done.

Word: Shameless
Meaning: unacceptable; unabashed
Example: I couldn’t stomach the author’s shameless self-promotion and quickly turned the channel.

Word: Shamrock
Meaning: a three-leaved green plant (clover) that is used as a symbol for Ireland
Example: If you are able to find a shamrock with four leaves instead of three; you will have the luck of the Irish.

Word: Shanghai
Meaning: to abduct or kidnap someone
Example: Pirates were able to shanghai several of our crewman by waiting for them just up shore from the dock.

Word: Shank
Meaning: the leg of a person or animal
Example: The dinner party was a success; with the biggest hit being the exotic bistro-style lamb shank that was served to the guests.

Word: Shanty
Meaning: a shack or hut that is built shabbily
Example: The river’s edge was covered with shanty after shanty; build by gypsies who decided to stick around for a while.

Word: Shard
Meaning: a sharp piece of a broken material such as ceramic; glass; or metal
Example: Grimacing as each shard of glass was pulled from his heel; the boy vowed never to walk barefooted again.

Word: Share
Meaning: a portion or part of something larger that has been divided out amongst people
Example: I became upset after finding out that my brother ate not only his piece of cake but also my share.

Word: Sharecropper
Meaning: a farmer paying rent with crops to the landowner
Example: The sharecropper was planting a field of soybeans.

Word: Shareholder
Meaning: a person who owns a portion of a company
Example: Each shareholder had an equal say in the company’s decision making process.

Word: Shark
Meaning: a person who takes advantage of the misfortune of others for personal gain
Example: The loan shark took advantage of the indebted couple and charged them an outrageous interest rate.

Word: Sharp-tongued
Meaning: harsh or critical in speech
Example: Curt and sharp-tongued; the director was vocally critical of all of the film’s performers.

Word: Sharp
Meaning: having a pointed edge that cuts something easily
Example: The sharp spindle pierced Aurora’s finger causing a drop of blood to seep out of the wound.

Word: Sharp
Meaning: having an edge or point that can cut something
Example: The doctor used the sharp blade of the scalpel to make a deep cut into the patient’s skin.

Word: Sharply
Meaning: intensely; suddenly
Example: Breathing in sharply; the man prepared to ask his girlfriend for her hand in marriage.

Word: Shatter
Meaning: to break something into multiple pieces
Example: The wayward baseball soared towards the window; serving to shatter it when it crashed into the glass.

Word: Shattered
Meaning: broke into many pieces
Example: Onlookers gasped as the urn dropped to the floor and shattered into dozens pieces.

Word: Shawl
Meaning: a wool garment worn by women to cover their head or shoulders
Example: Placing the shawl over her head; Little Red Riding Hood stepped out of the cottage and headed towards the woods.

Word: Sheaf
Meaning: any collection of things bound together; a bundle
Example: As he procrastinated; the accountant’s papers piled higher and higher in a sheaf that seemed to never end.

Word: Shear
Meaning: to cut something; usually referring to the hair of a person or animal
Example: One of the shepherd boy’s responsibilities was to shear the sheep when their wool was too long.

Word: Sheath
Meaning: a protective covering; usually of a knife or sword
Example: Carrying the sharp blade in its sheath helped protect the woodsman from accidental cuts.

Word: Shed
Meaning: to take something off
Example: As it shimmied along the rainforest floor; the peeling snake continued to shed his skin.

Word: Sheen
Meaning: a quality of things with a smooth and shiny surface
Example: I didn’t want the counter to have a shiny look; so I covered it with a paint with less sheen.

Word: Sheepish 
Meaning: flustered; embarrassed
Example: The shy girl looked sheepish when the popular boy paid her a compliment.

Word: Sheer
Meaning: of transparently thin quality; usually of fabric
Example: Peering through the sheer curtains; the ill and lonely boy watched his friends play outside in the snow.

Word: Shell
Meaning: the hard-outer covering of something
Example: The turtle’s tough shell helps him protect his soft inner body from predators that want to eat him.

Word: Shelter
Meaning: to give temporary protection from something bad such as weather or danger
Example: The homeless man set up a makeshift shanty to shelter himself from the bitter cold.

Word: Shenanigans
Meaning: actions or behaviors that are dishonest; immoral; or stupid
Example: Because my meal is taking forever to be prepared; I’m certain the kitchen staff is fooling around and engaging in shenanigans.

Word: Shepherd
Meaning: a person who tends and guides over a flock of sheep
Example: In charge of keeping sheep for their milk; meat; and wool; the shepherd had a powerful position in the clan.

Word: Sherbet
Meaning: a creamy dessert similar to ice cream and sorbet that is usually made with milk; fruit juice; gelatin; and egg whites
Example: The ice cream shop is now serving creamy orange sherbet alongside its other sweet treats.

Word: Shibboleth
Meaning: a behavior or word that shows someone belongs to a particular class; ethnicity; culture; profession; nation; etc.
Example: When the man spoke; it was obvious from his shibboleth that he was not a native English speaker.

Word: Shield
Meaning: to protect a person or thing from something dangerous or unpleasant
Example: My mother uses sunglasses to shield her sensitive eyes from the sun’s bright rays.

Word: Shift
Meaning: to move from one place to another over a small distance
Example: I had to shift my foot from where I had it in the sand because there was a pointy sea shell there that really hurt.

Word: Shiftless
Meaning: having a shortage of ambition; lazy
Example: The shiftless man spent most of his day sleeping on the couch.

Word: Shilly shally
Meaning: in an uncertain or wavering way
Example: When the teacher stumped the student with a difficult question; she spoke shilly shally since she didn’t know the answer.

Word: Shimmer
Meaning: to twinkle and shimmer with a soft light
Example: Silver spray paint helped the candidate’s signs shimmer and stand out in the school hallway.

Word: Shine
Meaning: to give off bright light
Example: A lone light did not shine bright enough for us to see what was going on underneath the dim carport.

Word: Ship
Meaning: to transport goods from one place to another
Example: It is easier to ship goods from plane than by boat since not every city is connected to a waterway.

Word: Shipment
Meaning: a quantity of goods that are being shipped
Example: Only one shipment of the exclusive toy arrived on time; leaving frenzied shoppers in a panic to get their hands on one.

Word: Shipper
Meaning: a person or company that transports goods
Example: An experienced shipper is needed to transport the fragile cargo from Chicago to Atlanta.

Word: Shipwreck
Meaning: the destruction of a ship at sea
Example: The lone survivor of the shipwreck; the injured man looked for anything on the shore to cover his wound with.

Word: Shirk
Meaning: to dodge responsibilities
Example: The man tried to shirk his duties by pretending to be ill.

Word: Shiver
Meaning: to shake or tremble slightly as a result of being cold; sick; or afraid
Example: The sight of the ghostly figure at the top of the stairs made me shiver with fright.

Word: Shoal
Meaning: a group of fish swimming together in shallow water
Example: A shimmering shoal of orange and white fish ducked in and out of the coral.

Word: Shock
Meaning: to surprise someone
Example: The news of her father’s murder didn’t shock Ann since he was always involved in drugs and violence.

Word: Shoddy
Meaning: not done or made well
Example: The shoddy porch collapsed one day after it was built.

Word: Shogun
Meaning: a postmodern military ruler of Japan who was just under the emperor
Example: In the 15th century; the shogun controlled both the military and finances of Japan.

Word: Shone
Meaning: gave forth shining light
Example: The sun shone brightly over the Pacific coast and made the water sparkle.

Word: Shoo-in
Meaning: a person or thing that is certain to win or succeed
Example: Although the public thought the governor was a shoo-in for reelection; he surprisingly lost the race by several thousand votes.

Word: Shook
Meaning: making something emotionally disturbed
Example: Seeing her husband out with another woman immediately shook the shocked wife.

Word: Shoot
Meaning: to fire; launch; or otherwise propel a projectile
Example: The sniper received the order to shoot the criminal with his rifle because he was threatening to kill his hostage.

Word: Shoot
Meaning: to kill or wound something with a bullet or an arrow
Example: The hunter aimed his bow at the unsuspecting deer and prepared to kill it with his arrow.

Word: Shooter
Meaning: a person using a gun
Example: Armed with a gun; the shooter charged into the theater and killed several people within a matter of minutes.

Word: Shore
Meaning: the land along the edge of a sea or other body of water
Example: Two survivors swam to shore after the small plane crashed in the bay.

Word: Shorn
Meaning: to cut
Example: He shorn the sheep with the sharp shears; turning it into a very short-haired sheep.

Word: Short
Meaning: brief or temporary; Lasting for a small period of time
Example: The students were asked to attend a very short meeting to quickly discuss changes to next year’s classes.

Word: Shortage
Meaning: a lack of something
Example: A shortage of teachers has put thousands of students in overcrowded classrooms.

Word: Shortcoming
Meaning: a deficiency or failing
Example: Her only shortcoming shown on the report card was in science because her lab reports were not written in the correct format.

Word: Shortfall
Meaning: a failure to get an expected return
Example: Because of fewer donations this year; the charity is facing a million-dollar shortfall.

Word: Shorthand
Meaning: a method of writing using abbreviations and symbols
Example: The secretary took notes in shorthand so that she could quickly write down all of the details.

Word: Shorthand
Meaning: writing in a shortened way so that characters and marks are used in substitution of words
Example: My lousy secretary couldn’t even take shorthand; so all of my correspondence was typed with missing sentences and phrases.

Word: Shortly
Meaning: soon or in a short time
Example: I will meet with each of you shortly; so you won’t be waiting on me for very long.

Word: Shortstop
Meaning: a baseball position between second and third base
Example: The shortstop ran between second third bases trying to secure an out for his team.

Word: Shout
Meaning: to yell or speak loudly
Example: Children often shout at one another because they do not have the communication skills to solve disagreements appropriately.

Word: Shove
Meaning: to roughly push
Example: When he’s packing for a trip; the disorganized man tries to shove all of his clothes into one suitcase.

Word: Show off
Meaning: to deliberately act in a way to showcase your superiority or get attention
Example: In an effort to impress his girlfriend; the boy tried to show off his skills and talent in the football game he played with his friends.

Word: Showboat
Meaning: to showing off an accomplishment
Example: Riley is a skilled gymnast who likes to showboat her talents by performing complicated handsprings in from of the cheerleaders.

Word: Showcase
Meaning: to display something
Example: Hosting a free wine tasting event at the gallery was a way for the up-and-coming artist to showcase her work.

Word: Showdown
Meaning: a confrontation or faceoff
Example: Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un prepared for a political faceoff but called a truce right before their showdown.

Word: Showplace
Meaning: an estate or building that is used as an example of beauty or history
Example: The colossal plantation home was used as a showplace to show New Orleans visitors how impressively built these types of homes were.

Word: Showrunner
Meaning: a creator of a television show that both directs and writes episodes for the production
Example: As showrunner for both Scandal and Grey’s Anatomy; Shonda Rhimes not only created the television series but also served as head writer.

Word: Shrapnel
Meaning: the pieces of a bomb or bullet that has exploded
Example: Shrapnel rained down on the city as the bomb exploded throughout the building.

Word: Shred
Meaning: to tear or cut something into small pieces
Example: If we are going to have chicken tacos for supper; someone needs to shred the chicken breasts into smaller pieces.

Word: Shrew
Meaning: a woman with an unpleasant personality
Example: My manager is a shrew who goes out of her way to make my workday unpleasant.

Word: Shrewd
Meaning: having or showing sharp powers of judgment; sharp-witted
Example: It takes a shrewd analyst to really make a killing in the stock market.

Word: Shriek
Meaning: to issue a piercing yelp or call
Example: When the pop idol walked on the stage; the girls started to shriek in excitement.

Word: Shrift
Meaning: remission of sins granted after confession
Example: Granting the shrift; the priest told the parishioner to go in peace and sin no more.

Word: Shrill
Meaning: sharp and high-pitched
Example: The witch’s long nails made a shrill sound on the window.

Word: Shrine
Meaning: a place where you worship or pay tribute to a specific deity; ancestor; hero; martyr; saint; or similar figure of awe and respect
Example: The young man had a shrine dedicated to his favorite football player.

Word: Shrink
Meaning: to lessen in size or stature
Example: In order to shrink my debt with the bank; I had to double my mortgage payments each month.

Word: Shrive
Meaning: to gain absolution for ones sins
Example: After months of feeling guilty about the lies she told; the woman decided to shrive at the local cathedral.

Word: Shrivel
Meaning: become wrinkled or get smaller
Example: Soaking in the bathtub for too long; the girl’s tiny fingers began to shrivel up like wrinkled sticks.

Word: Shriveled
Meaning: wrinkled and withered
Example: After sitting in the sun; the once juicy and round grapes are now dry and shriveled.

Word: Shroud
Meaning: an object that conceals something or someone
Example: The celebrity covers her head and face with a shroud to conceal her identity when she goes out in public.

Word: Shrouded
Meaning: covered to the point of being hidden
Example: The military tank was shrouded by a camouflage tarp.

Word: Shrug
Meaning: to show indifference or disregard; sometimes by raising and contracting the shoulders
Example: The man’s tendency to shrug off his flu symptoms until it was too late landed him in the hospital over the weekend.

Word: Shrunk
Meaning: to cause something to shrink or reduce
Example: Placing the water temperature on hot shrunk my extra-large sweater down to toddler size.

Word: Shtick
Meaning: a comedy routine or act
Example: Part of the comedy show; the mime performed his shtick for a packed house.

Word: Shudder
Meaning: to tremble suddenly
Example: A cool breeze moved through the garden; causing the princess’s body to shudder from the chill.

Word: Shuffle
Meaning: to mix-up; rearrange; or jumble objects
Example: Since the dealer failed to shuffle the cards correctly; I got the same hand back to back.

Word: Shun
Meaning: to avoid; especially persistently
Example: Mom’s doctor told her that if she wants to live to see her grandchildren she must shun fatty foods.

Word: Shunt
Meaning: to push or shove something
Example: It’s unfortunate that our society tends to shunt older workers to retirement before they are ready.

Word: Shutter
Meaning: a device that opens and closes to expose the film in a camera
Example: Because the shutter closed too soon; overexposure occurred and the picture was ruined.

Word: Shuttle
Meaning: a form of transportation that travels between two places on a regular basis
Example: Waiting for the next shuttle to take them home; the coworkers made casual conversation.

Word: Shy
Meaning: timid or bashful
Example: Several shy maidens giggled as they coyly peered at the prince from behind their decorative fans.

Word: Shyly
Meaning: doing something in a timid or bashful way
Example: Unable to get over her bashfulness; the wallflower shyly watched the others dance.

Word: Shyster
Meaning: a person; generally a lawyer; that uses fraudulent or questionable methods to do business
Example: This lawyer is what we call a shyster; relying on underhanded and sometimes even illegal techniques to get results.

Word: Sibilant
Meaning: associated with a hissing noise
Example: The snake’s sibilant hiss caused the frightened puppy to flee.

Word: Sibling
Meaning: one’s brother or sister
Example: Even when you are close in age; sharing a room with a sibling can be difficult.

Word: Sibylline
Meaning: having a secret meaning
Example: It took several historians to understand the sibylline meaning of the ancient scroll.

Word: Sick
Meaning: affected by a physical or mental illness
Example: My daughter usually tries to fake a cold to get out of school on Mondays; but this time she actually was sick; and I let her stay home.

Word: Sickle
Meaning: describes something with a curved or crescent-like shape
Example: The patient’s sickle shaped cells were curved; not round like a normal person’s cells.

Word: Sickly
Meaning: having weak or unhealthy feelings
Example: With dead leaves and droopy flowers; the sickly plant required sunlight; water and rich soil to become healthy again.

Word: Sickness
Meaning: illness or ailment
Example: In medieval times; the people thought that sickness came from unholy behavior instead of unhealthy bacteria.

Word: Side-eye
Meaning: a sidelong glance that shows disapproval or disdain
Example: Anna gave her husband a disapproving side-eye when he mentioned spending their savings on a new boat.

Word: Sidekick
Meaning: a person who is an assistant or close associate to another person and helps them in some way
Example: My younger brother thinks he is my sidekick and follows me around the house.

Word: Sidelines
Meaning: situation where one is witnessing an activity and not joining in
Example: My sister and I sat on the sidelines of our parents’ arguments because we wanted to know what they were saying without giving our opinions.

Word: Sidereal
Meaning: relating to distant stars; planets; or constellations
Example: The scientist’s calculations were based on sidereal time; which was related to the earth’s rotation around fixed planets.

Word: Sidestep
Meaning: to avoid or dodge something
Example: Jumping out of the road quickly; the pedestrian was able to sidestep being hit by the speeding vehicle.

Word: Sidetrack
Meaning: to cause someone to be distracted from an important issue
Example: My phone tends to sidetrack me when I am trying to work; so I put it away to keep myself from being distracted.

Word: Sidewalk
Meaning: a paved path for people to walk on beside a roadway
Example: Bikers were afraid to ride in the middle of the busy street; so they cycled down the adjoining sidewalk instead.

Word: Sidle
Meaning: to move in a discreet manner; often by walking sideways
Example: Members of the rescue team will sidle around the building to avoid being seen by the kidnappers.

Word: Siege
Meaning: a circumstance in which a group; usually a military or law enforcement agency; surrounds an area or building in an attempt to take it over
Example: During the siege of the village; the villagers were forced to give up their property.

Word: Siesta
Meaning: an afternoon nap that is usually associated with Mexico or Latin countries
Example: Preparing for a quick siesta; the sleepy man rubbed his eyes and reclined his chair.

Word: Sieve
Meaning: a utensil with holes that is used to separate items
Example: Use a sieve to remove the pulp from the juice.

Word: Sift
Meaning: to examine something carefully in order to locate an object of value
Example: With the hope of finding survivors; the rescuers slowly sift through debris.

Word: Sigh
Meaning: an audible release of air used to express a feeling
Example: When the man realized his wife hadn’t been harmed in the car accident; he released a loud sigh of relief.

Word: Sight
Meaning: vision; or the literal ability to see
Example: The guards blinded my sight with a strip of cloth to ensure that I did not see the path they took to reach their secret base.

Word: Sightseeing
Meaning: related to traveling around a region seeing interesting sights
Example: Sightseeing tours to the ancient coliseum are only offered to large groups by reservation.

Word: Sign
Meaning: to write or inscribe something
Example: To buy the home; the couple had to sign their names in pen on several pieces of paper.

Word: Signal
Meaning: a gesture or sign used to communicate
Example: The biker used his left hand as a signal that he would be making a turn.

Word: Signatory
Meaning: the signer of an official document; either a person or a country
Example: The French government became a signatory of the treaty; signing the document in the late 1800s.

Word: Signature
Meaning: a person’s name written by his or her own hand
Example: With the largest signature; John Hancock is best known for the way he signed his name on the Declaration of Independence.

Word: Signature
Meaning: a person's name written distinctively as a form of identification
Example: By providing his signature on the form; the university student agreed to pay for all of his classes in full.

Word: Significance
Meaning: worthy or valuable in a certain way
Example: Timothy didn’t know the significance of the pocket watch his father gave him when he was a teenager until he found out later that it had been passed down for many generations.

Word: Significant
Meaning: meaningful; noteworthy or important
Example: Without any significant proof of his involvement; the man was let off with a stern warning.

Word: Signify
Meaning: to mean or show something
Example: In the painting the abandoned rose is supposed to signify a lost love.

Word: Silence
Meaning: complete absence of noise or sound
Example: Silence swept over the crowd once talkative crowd; as the speaker prepared to announce the winner.

Word: Silent
Meaning: not making or accompanied by any sound
Example: With no children at school to laugh or make noise; the classroom was eerily silent.

Word: Silhouette
Meaning: a black outline of the shape of a person or thing
Example: The silhouette in my locket is an outline of my mother.

Word: Silky
Meaning: smooth and soft with a glossy texture
Example: The woman liked to keep her hair soft and silky by washing and conditioning it every day.

Word: Sill
Meaning: a piece of wood or metal that forms a ledge at the foot of a window opening or doorway
Example: A leak around the front door sill allowed water to pour in to the building during the flood.

Word: Silly
Meaning: acting ridiculous or childish
Example: While watching the silly cartoon on television with the roadrunner chasing Bugs Bunny; the kindergartners laughed.

Word: Silly
Meaning: goofy and playful
Example: The children played silly games on the playground and laughed at each other’s funny antics.

Word: Silo
Meaning: a farm tower used to store grain
Example: Wheat is placed in a drying silo before it is sold in the farmer’s market.

Word: Silt
Meaning: fine deposits of silt or clay that are carried by moving water or wind and settle at the bottom of a river
Example: Larger than clay but smaller than sand; pieces of silt are moved by the fast-moving Mississippi and settle at the bottom of its river banks.

Word: Silver lining
Meaning: a situation which may seem depressing; glum or hopeless but there seems to be a possibility of something good to come out of it
Example: After the student realized she was failing four courses at her high school; there was a silver lining when she became aware that each course was offering extra credit.

Word: Simian
Meaning: of or pertaining to monkeys or apes
Example: The actor mimicked simian movements for his role in Planet of the Apes.

Word: Similar
Meaning: alike or close to the same
Example: While the two brothers are not identical twins; they are so similar in looks and personality that I still cannot tell them apart.

Word: Similarity
Meaning: a likeness or resemblance
Example: The similarity in grandfather and grandson’s looks are uncanny; as most would not be able to tell their pictures apart.

Word: Similarly
Meaning: in a like manner
Example: In the military; all of the new recruits are similarly dressed.

Word: Simile
Meaning: a comparison that generally uses like or as to make lofty or exaggerated descriptions of a person or object
Example: The students were instructed to write a simile using ‘like’ or ‘as’ to compare their best friend to an animal.

Word: Similitude
Meaning: the condition of being alike
Example: Because the murders in the two states have similitude and share similar features; the cases will be given to the national police.

Word: Simmer
Meaning: to cook slowly below boiling temperatures
Example: The thick pasta sauce splattered all over the stove because it was meant to simmer; not boil!

Word: Simony
Meaning: the act of selling church offices; roles; or religious pardons
Example: Simony was outlawed by a few kings as the selling of church roles was frowned upon by many.

Word: Simpatico
Meaning: to be well-matched and like-minded
Example: Finding a simpatico partner in life has become easier for many single people since there are so many dating sites to find people with similarities.

Word: Simper
Meaning: a silly or shy grin
Example: The simper on Kate’s face causes me to think she gets nervous whenever she talks to a boy.

Word: Simple
Meaning: easy; effortless
Example: Mia needs a simple recipe to follow to create a quick dinner.

Word: Simpleton
Meaning: an unintelligent or foolish person
Example: The simpleton was so clueless; he didn’t realize that paper was made out of wood.

Word: Simplicity
Meaning: the state of being easy or simple
Example: After living in a huge city for twenty years; we were eager to enjoy the simplicity of small town life.

Word: Simplify
Meaning: to make something easier to understand or do
Example: The intellectually advanced professor tried to simplify the material for his less intelligent students.

Word: Simply
Meaning: in a plain and straightforward manner
Example: The designer likes to make her dresses simply and includes very few bright colors or details to the material.

Word: Simulacrum
Meaning: an image or representation of a person or an image
Example: Constructing a model-size simulacrum; the contractor hoped to give potential buyers a better understanding of what the condominiums will look like.

Word: Simulate
Meaning: to duplicate or replicate an image or a behavior
Example: Many homeowners use apps that simulate the sound of a barking dog to keep intruders out of their homes.

Word: Simultaneously
Meaning: at the exact moment
Example: The song sounded out of sync because the flutists were not playing simultaneously.

Word: Sin
Meaning: an act that is against a religious or moral law
Example: Isn’t it ironic that many people who believe murder is a sin still support the death penalty?

Word: Since
Meaning: from then until now
Example: Jen has suffered from the heart condition since birth; but just now discovered how serious it can be.

Word: Sincere
Meaning: genuine; meaning what one says or does; honest
Example: The judge agreed to lighten Howie’s sentence; if he made a sincere effort to improve his behavior.

Word: Sincerely
Meaning: in a manner that sounds truthful or genuine
Example: Because the doctor spoke sincerely; I really believed he cared about my health.

Word: Sincerity
Meaning: honesty; in a way that is free of deceit
Example: The traveler’s sincerity was questioned when he failed to declare funds to U.S. Customs agents.

Word: Sinecure
Meaning: a position that requires no work but still gives a payment; a cushy job
Example: Even thought we all thought of the job as a sinecure; Jane took her position very seriously and always worked late into the evening.

Word: Sinew
Meaning: sturdy tissue that links bones to muscles; also referred to as a tendon
Example: By injuring your Achilles tendon; you’ve injured a sinew in your leg that links the muscles of your calf to your heel.

Word: Sinewy
Meaning: powerful and sturdy
Example: Three sinewy men were able to lift the tree off the car.

Word: Sinful
Meaning: wrong morally or ethically
Example: Eve’s lapse in morality caused Adam and the rest of the world to be punished for her sinful actions.

Word: Sing
Meaning: to use one’s voice to make musical sounds
Example: The carolers will lift their voices and sing cheerful hymns this Christmas.

Word: Singe
Meaning: to burn something in a superficial way
Example: The spicy food began to singe my mouth as soon as I took a bite.

Word: Single-file
Meaning: one behind the other
Example: The students were asked to stay in a single-file line; walking one behind the other all the way to the cafeteria.

Word: Single
Meaning: one solitary or lone object
Example: A single shot was fired from the gun; but that one bullet was enough to kill the victim.

Word: Singular
Meaning: remarkable; extraordinary
Example: Although it isn’t widely known; the book is regarded as a singular and powerful piece of 19th century writing.

Word: Singularity
Meaning: the act of being the only one of something; on its own
Example: Since the hiker was stranded having the singularity of one match in his pocket; the hiker realized he would only have one chance to build a fire.

Word: Sinister
Meaning: wicked or evil
Example: The policeman quickly took note of the sinister man’s appearance.

Word: Sink
Meaning: to float down
Example: A hole in the bottom of the boat caused it to fill with water and sink down to the bottom of the lake.

Word: Sinner
Meaning: a person who does things that are wrong or immoral according to religious law
Example: The holy book calls for any sinner who commits adultery to be stoned to death.

Word: Sinuous
Meaning: winding and twisting
Example: According to the treasure map; the cave is located at the end of the sinuous path that winds up the mountain.

Word: Sip
Meaning: to drink something slowly
Example: I had to remember to sip the wine slowly so that I would not get a headache.

Word: Siphon
Meaning: to draw off liquid by means of a tube
Example: The sneaky thief used a long tube to siphon the gasoline from the woman’s vehicle and put it into his own.

Word: Sire
Meaning: the father of an animal; especially a horse or bull
Example: Although he had never won any awards; the son of the sire was a prize-winning pony.

Word: Siren
Meaning: an object that makes a loud noise as a warning
Example: A wailing siren and news broadcast alerted viewers that a twister had been spotted on a nearby farm.

Word: Sisyphean
Meaning: describing something that appears or actually is endless
Example: We hired a dozen extra workers to help us with the Sisyphean task of moving out of our sixteen-bedroom mansion.

Word: Site
Meaning: a place where a specific event has occurred
Example: Stalingrad is the site of one of the most heated battles of World War Two’s eastern front; with massive casualties for both the Germans and the Russians.

Word: Situate
Meaning: to place something
Example: The seasoned gardener suggested I situate the plant that is sheltered with at least partial shade.

Word: Situation
Meaning: the location or circumstances of something compared to the things around it
Example: With the impending hurricanes; I knew my sister’s situation was desperate since her house was flooded.

Word: Situation
Meaning: a set of circumstances or surroundings that one is in
Example: The soldiers were surrounded; and they had no choice but to surrender considering the gravity of their situation.

Word: Situational
Meaning: dependent upon a certain set of circumstances or situations
Example: The punishment for the crime seems to be situational since some of the cons go to jail and some get probation instead.

Word: Sizzle
Meaning: to make a hissing sound while frying or burning
Example: Begin by heating the frying pan until drops of water tossed into sizzle.

Word: Skedaddle
Meaning: to flee or go away hastily
Example: When the tornado turned toward the storm chasers; they realized they had better skedaddle to a safer location.

Word: Skein
Meaning: the V-formation that ducks and geese fly in when they are migrating
Example: Because they like to stick together when they are migrating for the winter; ducks and geese fly in a skein; which is a formation in the shape of a V.

Word: Skeleton
Meaning: an internal framework or body used to protect and support
Example: After the fire; the building’s metal skeleton was the only thing left standing.

Word: Skeptic
Meaning: a person who doubts that an idea or belief exists or is valid
Example: Being a skeptic; the woman highly doubted that the psychic would really be able to tell her future.

Word: Skeptical
Meaning: having reservations or doubts about something
Example: Although the car salesman assured us that the used SUV wasn’t a lemon; my skeptical mother was hesitant to believe him.

Word: Sketch
Meaning: a rough drawing of something
Example: A sketch of the main suspect’s face lead authorities to capturing the robbery trio.

Word: Skew
Meaning: slanted; crooked
Example: Because we didn’t use a level when hanging it; the picture was skew on the wall.

Word: Skewed
Meaning: leaning towards a side
Example: Her views of Her grandparents had been skewed after years of her parents telling her how rude and evil they were.

Word: Skewer
Meaning: a piece of metal or wood used to suspend food while cooking
Example: Roasting s’mores over the fire on a skewer is one of our camping traditions.

Word: Skiff
Meaning: a boat small enough for sailing or rowing by one person
Example: The fisherman hoped that the small skiff would be able to hold all of the fish he caught.

Word: Skill
Meaning: a particular ability or expertise
Example: The woman’s writing skill helped her stand out amongst all the other writers in the field.

Word: Skilled
Meaning: having the ability or skill to do something well
Example: Drawing back his bow; the skilled archer prepared to hit his target as he usually did.

Word: Skillful
Meaning: being good at doing a certain task
Example: A skillful painter; the artist was able to capture any image on canvas.

Word: Skim
Meaning: to go over something quickly
Example: Not having enough time to read all of the assigned chapters; I decided to skim through the pages and home for the best.

Word: Skinflint
Meaning: a person who spends as little money as possible
Example: The skinflint refused to spend money; even on things that are necessary.

Word: Skinny
Meaning: extremely thin
Example: Sauntering down the runway; the skinny model appeared rail thin.

Word: Skip
Meaning: to move past one thing in order to do the next
Example: Since I was tired; I decided to skip morning church service and attend the afternoon mass instead.

Word: Skipper
Meaning: the captain of a ship or boat
Example: The skipper of the boat guided the vessel through the storm and made it safely into the port.

Word: Skirmish
Meaning: a skirmish is a brief argument
Example: Several players got into a skirmish following the first play of the game.

Word: Skirt
Meaning: skirt is to go around something instead of directly through it
Example: Do not skirt around the truth about this issue; tell me exactly what happened and when.

Word: Skirting
Meaning: skirting is going around something instead of straight through it
Example: The daughter tried skirting around the truth about how she wrecked her car.

Word: Skittered
Meaning: glided or skipped lightly over the surface of something
Example: As the rain beat down on the highway; a car skittered across the slick road and careened down the hill.

Word: Skittering
Meaning: to glide or skip lightly over the surface of something
Example: After skittering across the surface of the lake; the pebble Gretchen tossed finally sank down to the bottom.

Word: Skittish 
Meaning: scared by even the smallest of things
Example: The skittish horse stood on his hind legs when the rabbit rushed by him.

Word: Skulduggery
Meaning: behavior characterized by tricking someone into something or cheating them through lies or misinformation
Example: The insurance company was investigated by the FBI after claims of skulduggery and cheating customers was reported.

Word: Skulk 
Meaning: to move about in a sneaky way
Example: When the criminal surveyed the jewelry store; he tried to skulk around the neighborhood without being noticed.

Word: Skyrocket
Meaning: to rise very quickly
Example: After one hit movie; the actress’s career seemed to skyrocket to success.

Word: Skyrocket
Meaning: to increase very steeply and quickly
Example: Gas prices usually skyrocket in the summer when lots of people are traveling and fuel is in great demand.

Word: Skyscraper
Meaning: a skyscraper is a tall building with many stories
Example: The contractor is building a new eighty-story residential skyscraper in downtown Houston.

Word: Slab
Meaning: a slab is a large; thick piece of wood; concrete; or stone
Example: The newlyweds went to the home improvement store to narrow down their favorite stone slab for their new home.

Word: Slack
Meaning: slack means loose; not tight
Example: I took my new dress to the seamstress because it needed slack added to the waist.

Word: Slacken
Meaning: slacken means to loosen or lessen
Example: You really need to slacken the seatbelt before you choke yourself.

Word: Slain
Meaning: slain means to kill in a violent manner
Example: Their son; slain in the shooting; began his career as a prison deputy at a local jail.

Word: Slake
Meaning: slake means to quench or satisfy one’s thirst
Example: This electrolyte water should help slake the runners’ thirst during the marathon.

Word: Slam-dunk
Meaning: an expression that means to achieve or accomplish something easily
Example: Although he thought the exam might be hard; the pleasantly surprised student considered it a slam-dunk.

Word: Slam
Meaning: to shut something loudly and with great force
Example: When he is angry; grant likes to slam his bedroom door so hard that the walls shake.

Word: Slammer
Meaning: a slang word for prison or jail
Example: Having spent ten years in the slammer; the ex-con wasn’t afraid of doing hard time for his crimes.

Word: Slander
Meaning: to make a statement that cannot be proven in order to injure someone’s reputation
Example: To win the election for homecoming queen; Jill resorted to slander to ruin her competitors’ reputations.

Word: Slang
Meaning: a form of informal language
Example: The children used slang as a secret language; not realizing their parents had cracked their codes long ago.

Word: Slant
Meaning: a slant is a lean; bend; or slope
Example: The slant of the mountain side made a much easier track for the mountain climbers than the strictly vertical path.

Word: Slapdash
Meaning: done quickly without consideration for accuracy
Example: Because I gave my mother very little notice; she had to plan a slapdash wedding ceremony for me.

Word: Slash
Meaning: a slash is a cut
Example: There was a slash through the doorway that allowed the thief to break into the enormous mansion.

Word: Slate
Meaning: a thin piece of rock that is often used a writing surface
Example: Writing the letter A on the smooth slate; the teacher demonstrated correct form for her students.

Word: Slaughter
Meaning: the killing of a large number of animals or people
Example: Mass slaughter of the Jewish people is one of history’s most senseless tragedies.

Word: Slave
Meaning: a person who is legally owned by another
Example: Slave labor was used in the southern colonies where large amounts of workers were needed to produce crops.

Word: Slavery
Meaning: the practice of owning people as property and requiring them to serve and work for free
Example: Escaping slavery herself; Harriett Tubman helped other slaves make it to freedom in the north.

Word: Slay
Meaning: to kill something in a violent way
Example: Determined to slay the dragon; the knight raised his sword to deliver a strike.

Word: Sleazy
Meaning: shabby; dishonest; immoral
Example: The sleazy salesman would make up anything to sell his product.

Word: Sleet
Meaning: rain and snow mixed
Example: The combination of snow and rain in the form of sleet rained down on the driver’s windshield.

Word: Sleigh
Meaning: a sled drawn by horses; especially reindeer
Example: Reindeer guide Santa Claus’s sleigh as he travels down the snowy mountains to deliver gifts to all the children.

Word: Sleight
Meaning: the manipulation of cunning or skill; particularly as a means of deception
Example: The card cheat used a sleight of hand trick to ensure he won the biggest pot of the night.

Word: Slender
Meaning: slim; lean
Example: Tall and slender; the model’s thin legs were one of her best assets.

Word: Sleuth
Meaning: a detective or investigator who solves mysteries
Example: Making a name for himself as a hard-hitting detective; the sleuth prides himself on being able to solve cold cases.

Word: Slew
Meaning: to have killed something/someone
Example: Zeus slew many of his enemies by literally striking them down with bolts of lightning.

Word: Slice
Meaning: to cut something
Example: Using a butcher knife; the deli worker continued to slice the meat into think pieces.

Word: Slick
Meaning: smooth and glossy (usually of a surface)
Example: Rain caused the road to become wet and many cars to skid across the slick surface.

Word: Slide
Meaning: to scoot or move across something without lifting from the item
Example: The gambler watched the dealer slide the cards across the table and prayed for a good hand.

Word: Slight
Meaning: small or minimal in degree
Example: Although she had a slight fever; the woman still felt well enough to go to work.

Word: Slightly
Meaning: a tiny bit
Example: Jamie loved that her best friend was only slightly bigger in size so that they could share each other’s clothes.

Word: Slim
Meaning: slight or unlikely; slender or thin
Example: After the terrible car accident; the driver only had a slim chance with about a 10% survival rate since he incurred extensive brain damage.

Word: Slimy
Meaning: covered in or having a moist; soft; and slippery surface that is usually considered gross or repulsive
Example: The slimy frog felt cool and moist to the touch when being held by the curious children.

Word: Slip
Meaning: to slide or fall after losing one’s balance or footing
Example: Water pooled on the grocery store floor caused a customer to slip and fall into the puddle.

Word: Slippery Slope
Meaning: a series of events in which one bad decision leads to a cascading number of negative consequences
Example: Taking drugs is a slippery slope; and if you start you may find yourself addicted; which will lead to a life of dependency and pain.

Word: Slipshod 
Meaning: performed too rapidly
Example: Because the roofer performed a slipshod repair job; we had a leak in the kitchen within hours.

Word: Slit
Meaning: a long; narrow cut or opening
Example: The long slit in the woman’s evening gown went from her ankle all the way up to her thigh.

Word: Slog
Meaning: to work extremely hard over a period of time
Example: The road workers were forced to slog it out and continue the construction even through the holidays.

Word: Slogan
Meaning: a short noticeable motto for marketing a product or service
Example: Once people started to remember the catchy slogan of the company’s popular frozen foods; this product’s sales increased.

Word: Slope
Meaning: a surface that has one end that is higher than the other
Example: The children slid their sled from the top of the hill to the bottom; laughing as they zoomed down the slope.

Word: Sloppily
Meaning: messy; dirty; disheveled
Example: He showed up to the interview so sloppily dressed that they turned him away at the door.

Word: Slosh
Meaning: the sound of splashing
Example: The distant slosh of the waves on the sandy beach was a relaxing sound as I attempted to take a nap.

Word: Slothful
Meaning: lazy and idle; wanting to do nothing
Example: Because he was so slothful; the lazy husband laid in bed every day while his wife worked.

Word: Slouch
Meaning: to stand or sit in a stooped; slumped; or drooping way
Example: Too tired of sitting up straight; the exhausted student began to slouch down in his chair.

Word: Slough
Meaning: to cause to shed or purge
Example: The product is designed to slough off dead skin cells.

Word: Slovenly
Meaning: having a dirty appearance
Example: The man’s slovenly dress was a result of him being homeless for a month.

Word: Slug
Meaning: a slimy mollusk that lacks a shell and secretes mucous as it drags its body along the ground
Example: The slug took over the man’s garden; dragging its slimy body over the plants as it munched.

Word: Sluggard
Meaning: a generally lazy and unproductive person
Example: Jonas was your typical sluggard who loved nothing more than laying in his bed and playing video games all day.

Word: Sluggish
Meaning: slow-moving and lacking in energy
Example: After staying up all night; the tired teenager was sluggish when morning arrived.

Word: Slum
Meaning: a poor area of a city where the living conditions are really bad; and the houses are falling apart
Example: Deep in the slum; the people were living in terrible poverty in shacks that were barely standing.

Word: Slumber
Meaning: sleep; rest
Example: The bear awoke from his slumber; stretching and yawning after a month long nap.

Word: Slumgullion
Meaning: a cheap stew that is made of meat and vegetables but is thin like water
Example: The poof family could only afford to make slumgullion and slurped the thin stew at every meal.

Word: Slump
Meaning: to fall suddenly of prices; values; and sales
Example: After a successful mowing season; winter caused service calls to slump.

Word: Slunk
Meaning: crept or snuck
Example: After noticing the light on in the living room; the teenage girl slunk back into the house after her curfew by crawling up the tree and into her bedroom window.

Word: Slur
Meaning: to speak and mumble in a way that the words run into each other and can’t be understood
Example: The drunk patron started to slur and mumbled his words as he stumbled around the bar.

Word: Slush
Meaning: ice or snow that is partially melted
Example: As the snow began to melt; it left behind a thin layer of watery slush.

Word: Sly
Meaning: having or showing cleverness in a cunning or deceitful manner
Example: Instead of a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer; he gave a sly smile as a response.

Word: Smack
Meaning: to hit something or someone quickly with an object or the palm
Example: The angry woman tried to smack her husband in the face; but he dodged the blow.

Word: Smackdown
Meaning: the result of a humbling confrontation or defeat
Example: After laying the smackdown on his opponent; the wrestler celebrated his victory by bragging to everyone in the arena.

Word: Small
Meaning: of lesser size than normal
Example: The skinny girl ordered a very small dress to wear to the dance.

Word: Smarting
Meaning: the sensation of feeling a sharp pain or hurt
Example: The football team is still smarting over their loss to their rival but must prepare for the next game.

Word: Smash
Meaning: to break something into several pieces through brute force
Example: If my large dog sees a squirrel outside the window; he may accidentally smash the glass trying to get to it.

Word: Smear
Meaning: to spread a substance messily
Example: The baby used her fingers to smear paint all across the paper.

Word: Smell
Meaning: to detect the odor or scent of something using your nose
Example: Amy stopped to smell the flowers in the garden because she loved the sweet scent.

Word: Smelt
Meaning: to extract metal from ore through a heating process
Example: In order to get useable metal out of iron ore; you must smelt it with extreme heat to get rid of the useless impurities.

Word: Smile
Meaning: to turn the corners of one’s mouth up as a way of showing happiness or kindness
Example: Tim was able to make his baby smile and giggle by tickling him under his chin.

Word: Smirk
Meaning: a confident and often gloating smile
Example: The smirk on his face told her that he was being sneaky.

Word: Smirk
Meaning: a kind of smile that one gives when acting in a smug or conceited way
Example: Because she knew the answer to the difficult math problem; the smug student shot a smirk toward her confused classmates.

Word: Smite
Meaning: to strike something with a firm blow
Example: Bringing his sword down swiftly; the knight tried to smite the enemy before he could get away.

Word: Smithereens
Meaning: very tiny pieces
Example: As the bomb exploded; it blew all of the paper close to it into tiny smithereens.

Word: Smitten
Meaning: in love
Example: The boy was completely smitten with his new babysitter; smiling whenever she was near.

Word: Smog
Meaning: fog or haze that is polluted with smoke
Example: Thick smog filled the air outside of the huge factory; polluting the sky all around the plant.

Word: Smolder
Meaning: to burn with no flame and little smoke; to have strong restrained feelings
Example: After we extinguished the bonfire; it continued to smolder for a long time.

Word: Smooth
Meaning: having a surface texture that is flat and level with no bumps or uneven spots
Example: The smooth highway pavement was very different from the bumpy dirt roads we are used to traveling.

Word: Smoothly
Meaning: in an easy; flowing way
Example: Everything was going smoothly during his driver’s test until he forgot to use his signal to turn and drove through a stop sign.

Word: Smorgasbord
Meaning: a collection containing a variety of things
Example: Fitness experts recommend trying a smorgasbord of cardiovascular activities to discover new hobbies.

Word: Smote
Meaning: to knock down or kill with great force
Example: With one touch; the war god can smote you into ashes.

Word: Smother
Meaning: to restrict or stifle the airflow of someone or something requiring air or oxygen
Example: When the camp leader decided he needed to smother the fire before going to bed; he took his booted foot and stomped it out.

Word: Smudge
Meaning: a smeared mark on the surface of something
Example: Wiping her eyes while crying; the bride tried hard not to leave a smudge from her makeup.

Word: Smug 
Meaning: extremely satisfied with oneself
Example: Gregory was smug after he easily eliminated his rival during the kickboxing competition.

Word: Smuggle
Meaning: to bring something into or out of a place by concealing it
Example: Police were there to arrest the woman trying to smuggle drugs into the airport.

Word: Snag
Meaning: to tear or rip something after catching it on a sharp projection of some kind
Example: I tried not to snag my dress on the rosebush but got it caught anyhow.

Word: Snaggletooth
Meaning: a smile with a tooth or teeth that are crooked and project out past others
Example: Many of the first graders have snaggletooth smiles; so they rarely ever tease each other about their crooked teeth.

Word: Snap
Meaning: to break
Example: Feeling the tree branch snap beneath my weight; I prepared to hit the ground below.

Word: Snapshot
Meaning: an informal photograph taken quickly
Example: While looking through an old photo album; Chelsea found a snapshot of her grandmother when she was very young.

Word: Snare
Meaning: a trap
Example: Finding himself in the middle of a bureaucratic snare; the politician wished that he had never trusted his fellow cabinet members.

Word: Snarky
Meaning: sarcastic or caustic in nature
Example: My friend asked a pretty dumb question; so naturally I decided on a snarky response dripping with enough sarcasm to let him know how silly it was.

Word: Snarl
Meaning: growl
Example: Cowering in fear; Pete and Jerry heard the snarl of an unknown animal while walking in the haunted forest.

Word: Snatch
Meaning: to grab something quickly
Example: I tried to snatch up my most precious belongings before I ran to safety; but the smoke from the fire proved too much for my lungs.

Word: Sneak peak
Meaning: an opportunity to see something before it is officially accessible
Example: Our local movie theater will be giving a sneak peak of the new thriller that won’t be officially released until next week.

Word: Sneak
Meaning: to move about in a sly and secretive manner
Example: My friends wanted to sneak into the theater without a ticket; but I was too afraid of getting caught.

Word: Sneaky
Meaning: behaving in a sly or secretive manner
Example: The sneaky teenager quietly snuck out her bedroom window while her parents slept.

Word: Sneer
Meaning: to speak or smile in an unkind way
Example: Mark gave Ted a condescending sneer when he walked into the meeting.

Word: Sneeze
Meaning: suddenly and involuntarily blowing air from the nose
Example: As the boy slept; his sneaky sibling tickled his nose with feathers that caused a terrible sneeze!

Word: Snicker
Meaning: to let out a half-suppressed laugh in a disrespectful way
Example: The judges tried not to snicker at the beauty queen’s misguided rant about how world hunger affects Americans the most.

Word: Snide
Meaning: indirectly unkind or insulting
Example: Tina always made snide and cutting remarks when trying to hurt her younger sister’s feelings.

Word: Sniff
Meaning: bringing in air through the nose in order to smell something
Example: Having the carsick woman sniff and taste ginger helped her to feel a little better.

Word: Sniffle
Meaning: to sniff over and over again; usually when sick or crying
Example: Sniffle attacks plagued the ailing twins and caused their noses to run constantly.

Word: Snip
Meaning: to cut something with a small; quick stroke
Example: If you snip the suckers off of the bush too quickly; the blossoms will never appear.

Word: Snipe
Meaning: to shoot at someone from a hiding place
Example: The soldier used his long-range rifle to snipe his targets off of the building.

Word: Sniper
Meaning: one that shoots at someone from a hiding place
Example: The sniper hid with his rifle behind the bushes and laid in wait for his first victim.

Word: Snippet
Meaning: a small piece of something
Example: A snippet of the code was placed on the screen for viewers to copy down.

Word: Snippy
Meaning: used to describe rude behavior or communication that is brief or curt
Example: My lab partner comes off as a bit snippy; but I think it is simply his nature to be brief when working on a project.

Word: Snitch
Meaning: a person who reports the wrongdoing of others to someone in an authority position
Example: Fearing that he would be labeled a snitch; the man made sure that no one at the company knew he was filing a complaint.

Word: Sniveling
Meaning: whining while in tears
Example: The little boy was sniveling as he begged his mother not to punish him.

Word: Snob
Meaning: a person who is condescending and thinks they are better than those around them
Example: The clothing snob constantly bragged about how she never wore the same outfit twice.

Word: Snobbery
Meaning: the attitude or behavior of a person who is condescending and thinks they are better than those around them
Example: With a cold and distant attitude; the rich woman’s snobbery kept her alone and without an close friends.

Word: Snobbish
Meaning: describes a person who looks down on others based on superficial reasons (good looks; wealth)
Example: The snobbish woman is in desperate need for a job but still refuses to work in a fast food restaurant.

Word: Snoop
Meaning: to look around a place secretly; in an attempt to discover things or find out information
Example: Deciding to snoop through her husband’s pockets; the woman looked around to make sure the coast was clear.

Word: Snooty
Meaning: an attitude of disdain or contempt towards others
Example: The most popular girl in school is especially snooty; looking down on almost every other student and acting like they are beneath her.

Word: Snooty
Meaning: rude and arrogant; especially to those from a lower class
Example: The snooty heiress refused to associate with anyone in a lower class than her.

Word: Snore
Meaning: breathing with a grunting or snorting sound while sleeping
Example: Hearing a loud snore coming from the living room; the children ran down the stairs to find grandpa sleeping in the chair.

Word: Snout
Meaning: the mouth and nose of an animal that projects out
Example: Placing its snout up to the ground; the dog sniffed around in search of the suspect.

Word: Snow
Meaning: frozen water vapor that falls down in small flakes
Example: Glistening white snow fell lightly from the clear sky.

Word: Snub
Meaning: the ignoring or brushing off of someone
Example: The waitress insisted that her lack of attentiveness to the table wasn’t a snub; but an accidental oversight.

Word: Snuff
Meaning: to put out a flame
Example: Blowing out the flicker quickly; the boy was able to snuff out the candle and hop into bed before his mother walked into the room.

Word: Snug
Meaning: fitting tightly
Example: The baby’s car seat belt must be snug so that she will be protected in case of an accident.

Word: Snuggery
Meaning: a comfortable place or position
Example: The quaint cabin was a snuggery of privacy and reflection for the writer.

Word: Soar
Meaning: to rise high
Example: Gas prices always seem to soar in the summer when families are getting ready to travel.

Word: Sob
Meaning: to cry in a noisy fashion or a loud gasp made when a person cries
Example: Spoiled toddlers often sob when their parents leave home.

Word: Sober
Meaning: sober means solemn; serious; and sensitive
Example: The interviewee gave a blank sober stare into the camera lens prior to her meeting.

Word: Sober
Meaning: not affected by alcohol or illegal drugs
Example: While in his sober state; the man was much more irritable than when he was drinking.

Word: Sobriety
Meaning: the state of being not using alcohol or illegal drugs
Example: Sobriety tests showed that the driver was inebriated and not able to operate a vehicle.

Word: Sobriquet 
Meaning: a commonly used name for an individual that is usually shorter than the person’s real name
Example: Kitty is the sobriquet Catherine’s friends use when addressing her.

Word: Sociable
Meaning: friendly and willing to spend time and talk with other people
Example: Out of all the party guests; my sociable neighbor was the only one to make conversation with me.

Word: Social construct
Meaning: an ideal or system that exists only because humans have put it in place
Example: The notion that women were incapable of performing some of the same jobs as men was a social construct; with no real basis in reality.

Word: Social Contract
Meaning: the philosophical notion that people surrender their freedoms to a government in exchange for the security and stability they provide
Example: Many philosophers believe the idea of social contract; in which people sacrifice freedom for security in government.

Word: Socialism
Meaning: a system of rule in which the government controls the main industries
Example: Under a system of socialism; the government manages the country’s major businesses.

Word: Socialist
Meaning: an individual who supports the policies of socialism
Example: A socialist is a person who favors the principles of socialism in government.

Word: Socialite
Meaning: a trendsetting young woman who is frequently seen at society’s important events
Example: As a socialite; I normally attend two or three social events each week.

Word: Socialization
Meaning: the process of talking to or doing activities with others
Example: Socialization with humans was difficult for the rescue pup since he had been abused in the past.

Word: Socially
Meaning: relating to society or a social situation with others
Example: Being socially awkward around the opposite sex kept the science teacher from getting a date.

Word: Society
Meaning: an organized group of people
Example: Homeowners contested that the property tax was unfair since it singles out one segment in society.

Word: Socioeconomic
Meaning: socioeconomic is a term used to describe social and economic factors
Example: A student’s socioeconomic status is used to determine who receives free school lunch.

Word: Sociologist
Meaning: a sociologist is a person who studies patterns of social behavior
Example: The sociologist concentrates on patterns of behavior shared by members of a society.

Word: Sociology
Meaning: sociology is the scientific study of social behavior; patterns; and structure
Example: During this course; students will gain a precise understanding of sociology as the scientific study of social structure.

Word: Sociopath
Meaning: a sociopath is a person possessing a personality disorder that involves having very little regard or concern for others
Example: A sociopath does not practice understanding or compassion for others; as he is only concerned with self.

Word: Sockdolager
Meaning: a decisive and often unexpected blow
Example: President Trump’s win came as a surprising sockdolager to both Democrats and Republicans alike.

Word: Socrates
Meaning: a Greek philosopher who known for his thoughts on justice and virtue and is credited for laying the foundation of Western Philosophy
Example: Greek philosopher Socrates rejected the idea that how virtuous a person is depends on age or gender.

Word: Sod
Meaning: the grass covered surface of land
Example: Adding grass seed to a lawn can be a long process; but it is much less expensive than laying sod with grass attached.

Word: Sodden
Meaning: soaked in fluid
Example: My shoes were sodden after I walked a mile in the rain.

Word: Sodium
Meaning: an element that is found naturally in many things and when combined with chloride; results in table salt
Example: Sodium is an element found in the ocean; causing the water’s saltiness.

Word: Soften
Meaning: to make or become less harsh or hard
Example: Curtains soften the sun’s rays; stopping the bright light from shining through in the morning.

Word: Softly
Meaning: in a gentle and quiet way
Example: Rocking the baby softly; the new mother tried to keep from waking her slumbering newborn.

Word: Softness
Meaning: not hard or firm
Example: The pillow’s softness made the man feel as if he was sleeping on a cloud.

Word: Sog
Meaning: a piece of marshland that is soft and wet
Example: The farmer’s boots sank into the squishy mud as he stepped out onto the sog.

Word: Soggy
Meaning: something that is wet and soft
Example: The toddler spilled juice on her bread and refused to eat it because it was soggy.

Word: Soigne
Meaning: polished; well-groomed or dressed
Example: Looking soigne; the debonair gentleman stepped out of the limousine.

Word: Soiree
Meaning: an elegant party or event
Example: Attendees of the soiree are expected to dress in star-studded attire.

Word: Sojourn
Meaning: a brief stay
Example: As a teacher; I am looking forward to my sojourn at the beach during spring break.

Word: Sojourner
Meaning: a person who temporarily resides or stays in a place
Example: A servant and a sojourner stayed at the inn; but only for a short period.

Word: Solace
Meaning: comfort in grief
Example: After Maureen’s husband died; she sought solace in the church.

Word: Solar
Meaning: related to the sun
Example: Solar panels on buildings can reduce the amount of electricity used since they rely on energy from the sun.

Word: Solder
Meaning: a fusible metal (usually tin or lead) that is used to join other metals together
Example: Half of the world’s tin is used for solder; specifically to fuse other metals together.

Word: Soldier
Meaning: a person serving in the military
Example: A soldier serves in the military and bravely puts his life on the line to defend our many freedoms.

Word: Sole
Meaning: only
Example: As the sole heir to her parents’ fortune; the selfish woman felt lucky to be an only child.

Word: Solecism
Meaning: something that isn’t seen as normal or appropriate; a deviation from the norm
Example: According to the fashion critic; the actress committed a major solecism when she wore white after Labor Day.

Word: Solely
Meaning: not involving anyone or anything else; or performed by only one person
Example: Walking the dog is solely Gordon’s responsibility; and if the dog pees on the carpet we all know that he didn’t do his job.

Word: Solemn
Meaning: extremely somber or serious
Example: My mother’s solemn expression told me she was not in a playful mood.

Word: Solemnity
Meaning: the condition of being serious or formal
Example: In due solemnity; the minister pronounced us husband and wife.

Word: Solemnize
Meaning: to perform a marriage ceremony
Example: The reverend agreed to solemnize the marriage as long as the bride and groom agreed to counseling.

Word: Solicit
Meaning: to request or ask for something
Example: Many businesses put up signs to discourage others from going there to solicit.

Word: Solicitation
Meaning: actively seeking out others in order to obtain a favor or money for a specific cause or business
Example: The homeowner’s association called the police on the door to door salesmen because there was a strict policy of no solicitation in the community.

Word: Solicitor
Meaning: a solicitor is a person who tries to obtain business from others usually related to sales
Example: The insurance salesman acted like a solicitor; his demeanor resembling more of a peddler than a professional.

Word: solicitous
Meaning: full of anxiety and concern
Example: I am going to keep a solicitous eye out for criminals in this hard-hit neighborhood.

Word: Solicitude
Meaning: care or concern
Example: His solicitude was shown by the fact that he brought flowers to her every day.

Word: Solid
Meaning: firm; stable
Example: The murderer had a solid alibi that kept him from being charged with the crime.

Word: Solidarity
Meaning: unity that occurs among people with a shared purpose
Example: Since John is an African American; he joined the Black Student Union in college to show solidarity for his race.

Word: Solidify
Meaning: to reinforce or make something stronger
Example: The woman’s constant complaining only seemed to solidify her husband’s resolve to skip out on household chores.

Word: Soliloquize
Meaning: to talk to one’s self
Example: Alone on the island; the stir-crazy man had no choice but to soliloquize since there was no one else to talk to.

Word: Soliloquy
Meaning: a monologue that is spoken out loud by an actor or actress
Example: Speaking her internal thoughts as she moved about; the Broadway star gave a stellar soliloquy through her moving speech.

Word: Solipsism
Meaning: the idea that the only thing we can be truly certain of is our own existence
Example: The philosophy of solipsism dictates that we can only be sure of our own existence; and that everything else may just be a figment of our imagination.

Word: Solitaire
Meaning: solitaire means a single gem set in a piece of jewelry
Example: The bride’s engagement ring had a single; solitaire diamond that was striking at first glance.

Word: Solitary 
Meaning: deserted; unoccupied
Example: Because people left the village before the volcano erupted; the lava destroyed only a solitary community.

Word: Solitude
Meaning: aloneness; state of being alone
Example: The man went out to the woods to escape from his busy life and get some solitude.

Word: Solo
Meaning: a piece of music for one performer
Example: The auditions for the senior solo were to take place tomorrow.

Word: Solstice
Meaning: the time when the sun is furthest north or south of Earth's equator
Example: The summer solstice occurs in June and is the longest day of the year.

Word: Solubility
Meaning: the condition of being soluable and dissolved in liquid
Example: Salt has great solubility; immediately disappearing into the solution.

Word: Solute
Meaning: solute is a small component in a solution
Example: In this mixture; a solute is dissolved in another substance.

Word: Solution
Meaning: the answer to a problem or situation
Example: The struggling agency is looking for a solution to their low funds problem.

Word: Solvent
Meaning: able to pay all financial obligations
Example: When the man realized he was not solvent and was unable to provide for his wife and kids; he killed himself.

Word: Somatic
Meaning: somatic means relating to the human body
Example: It is difficult to link generic somatic symptoms; like an irregular heartbeat; to specific illness.

Word: Somber
Meaning: grim or miserable
Example: When I saw the doctor’s somber expression; I knew my diagnosis was not a good one.

Word: Somehow
Meaning: in a way that isn’t known
Example: Lily will find the money for the bills somehow; but she isn’t sure where it will come from just yet.

Word: Somersault
Meaning: a somersault is an acrobatic flip
Example: Macie did a forward somersault to show off her acrobatic skills.

Word: Sometimes
Meaning: happening from time to time (occasionally)
Example: Alex and his sister go to the gym sometimes; but it’s not an everyday occurrence.

Word: Somewhat
Meaning: to some degree or measure
Example: I’m somewhat hungry; but I not so starving that I can’t hold off until lunch.

Word: Somnambulant
Meaning: sleepwalking or resembling a sluggish sleepwalker
Example: After taking his night medication; the somnambulant sleeper would end up eating ice cream while still asleep!

Word: Somnambulate
Meaning: to walk while sleeping
Example: The sleep therapist was studying patients who somnambulate.

Word: Somnambulism
Meaning: somnambulism is engaging in activities such as walking while asleep
Example: The child’s somnambulism caused the parents to add extra locks to the doors so that she couldn’t leave the house while sleep walking.

Word: Somnambulist
Meaning: a somnambulist is one who sleep walks
Example: The somnambulist has no idea she sleep walks to the neighbor’s house nearly every night.

Word: Somniferous
Meaning: somniferous describes something that prompts sleep
Example: Since her prescription sleep aid had a fast-acting somniferous effect; the woman has to be prepared to fall asleep soon after taking it.

Word: Somnolent
Meaning: likely to induce sleep
Example: The moonlight; along with the somnolent lapping of the waves on the shore; set the perfect scene for a romantic evening.

Word: Sonar
Meaning: a device that is used to detect or locate objects under water
Example: Using its sonar as a tool; the dolphin swiftly navigated itself through the murky water.

Word: Sonata
Meaning: a long piece of classical music that is composed for one or two instruments and contains several parts
Example: Through most of the sonata; the musicians played in an up-tempo.

Word: Sonic
Meaning: related to sound or sound waves
Example: Sonic whooshes from the guitar caught the music critic’s attention.

Word: Sonnet
Meaning: verse form consisting of fourteen lines
Example: Every time grouchy Bob began to hear a sonnet; he would cover his ears.

Word: Sonorous
Meaning: able to produce a deep sound
Example: Even without a microphone; the singer’s sonorous voice filled the entire room.

Word: Soonest
Meaning: as soon as possible
Example: The soonest that we can get a flight out of Dallas is nine p.m. since the other flights are overbooked.

Word: Soot
Meaning: fine black powder
Example: With a broom in his hand and a song in his heart; the chimney sweeper went about his task of sweeping up soot.

Word: Soothe
Meaning: to calm or ease
Example: The calming aloe vera plant is used be people all over the world to soothe burns and skin irritations.

Word: Soothing
Meaning: calming; comforting
Example: A soothing lullaby helped the baby drift into a deep and restful sleep.

Word: Soothsayer
Meaning: an individual with the ability to predict the future
Example: In the old days; the tribe’s soothsayer would predict the best day for battle.

Word: Sophism
Meaning: a clever but untrue argument that is used to deceive someone
Example: The debater’s argument was pure sophism and had no evidence to support it.

Word: Sophistical
Meaning: misleading or erroneously deceptive
Example: The scientist’s sophistical logic led many to believe the earth was flat instead of round.

Word: Sophisticated 
Meaning: appealing in an intellectual way
Example: When Jackie reads books; she prefers to read sophisticated novels and not trashy romance books.

Word: Sophistication
Meaning: an understanding of the world and its ways; particularly knowledge and culture
Example: The epitome of grace and sophistication; the debutante; came from a rich family that taught her both culture and class.

Word: Sophistry
Meaning: a reason or argument that sounds correct but is actually false
Example: Although the cult leader knew he was being dishonest with his group members; he hoped they would believe his sophistry.

Word: Sophomore
Meaning: an individual in his/her second year of university or high school or a second release or effort
Example: The rapper’s sophomore album was not as popular as his first musical release.

Word: Sophomoric
Meaning: juvenile; immature; and lacking good judgment
Example: After drinking too much alcohol; the celebrity made sophomoric comments that turned his fans against him.

Word: Soporific
Meaning: causing or tending to cause sleep
Example: The professor’s boring speech was soporific and had everyone in the audience yawning.

Word: Soprano
Meaning: highest female singing voice
Example: Sylvia’s voice was too deep to sing the soprano part.

Word: Sorbet
Meaning: sweet; fruit-flavored ice that is served as a dessert
Example: Although it is a simple dish; the icy lemon sorbet is one of the café’s most popular sweet treats.

Word: Sorcery
Meaning: the utilization of magical abilities acquired from evil souls
Example: The dark knight used sorcery to hypnotize the king.

Word: Sordid
Meaning: very bad or dirty
Example: If people learn of the politician’s sordid past; they will not vote for him.

Word: Sore
Meaning: tender; painfully uncomfortable
Example: Rubbing his sore ankle; the runner hoped that the pain would subside before his next meet.

Word: Sororal
Meaning: of or pertaining to a sister; sisterly
Example: Amy and Lynn grew up together and had developed a very sororal friendship.

Word: Sorority
Meaning: a social organization of female students at a college or university
Example: Every year Mary would meet with her sorority sisters to reminisce about their college years.

Word: Sorrow
Meaning: misery or grief
Example: The singer wrote a ballad to express her sorrow over a failed relationship.

Word: Sorrowful
Meaning: displaying or causing misery
Example: It was the policeman’s job to deliver the sorrowful news about the child’s death.

Word: Sorrowfully
Meaning: sadly; mournfully
Example: Sobbing sorrowfully; the widow finally gave in to the deep pain for losing her husband in battle.

Word: Sorry
Meaning: remorseful; repentant
Example: Although she was sorry for what she had done to her heartbroken husband; the adulteress seemed unable to show her remorse.

Word: Sort of
Meaning: to some extent or in some kind of way
Example: Trey sort of enjoys going to the amusement park in the summer; but the extreme heat makes it not worth the trip.

Word: Sort
Meaning: to arrange things in groups based on shared qualities
Example: The teacher asked me to sort out the graded assignments based on which student they belonged to; so they could be handed back to the class all at once.

Word: Sough
Meaning: a moaning or sighing sound
Example: The sough of the winds during the storm reminded grandma of the moaning of a child in pain.

Word: Sought
Meaning: desired; wanted
Example: After having a child with Down syndrome; they sought out a doctor for his research on mental disorders.

Word: Soul
Meaning: the inner spirit or essence of a human being
Example: Believing she was his soul mate; the knight professed his love for the maiden who had an inner essence as pure as his own.

Word: Soulful
Meaning: expressing feeling or emotion
Example: The singer crooned out a soulful melody that expressed all of the emotions bottled inside.

Word: Soulmate
Meaning: a romantic partner which one has a strong connection (usually lifelong) connection
Example: Ella knew that Ben was her soulmate and hoped that they would marry soon.

Word: Sound
Meaning: noise produced by continuous and regular vibrations
Example: An eerie sound coming from the top of the attic spooked the home owners.

Word: Sound
Meaning: vibrations that travel through the air and can be heard upon reaching a person or animal’s eardrum
Example: Anything that you can hear is a sound; a vibration that travels through the air and enters your perception through your ear.

Word: Soundness
Meaning: being in good condition
Example: The soundness of the wood was quite surprising since we bought the desk at such a low price.

Word: Sour
Meaning: bitter or resentful
Example: Sour glances were exchanged between the two social adversaries at the fundraising gala.

Word: Source
Meaning: basis; foundation
Example: Although the source of the infection could not be found; it was eventually cured with antibiotics.

Word: Southern
Meaning: situated in the south
Example: Sweet tea is a southern favorite that is enjoyed more here than any other part of the country.

Word: Souvenir
Meaning: an item of sentimental value; to remember an event or location
Example: On our first date at the beach; I grabbed a seashell as a souvenir to remind me of how our loving relationship began.

Word: Sovereign 
Meaning: exercising its own authority
Example: While a few people believe Mexico is a part of the United States; it is actually a sovereign country with its own government.

Word: Sovereignty
Meaning: power; authority; control
Example: The hijackers demanded that China relinquish its claim of sovereignty over Hong Kong.

Word: Sow
Meaning: to spread or scatter
Example: The old adage; you reap what you sow; means that whatever one spreads they also will gain.

Word: Sown
Meaning: scattered; disseminated
Example: After he seeds were sown throughout the fields; the farmer prayed for adequate rain to help his crop grow.

Word: Space
Meaning: a place or area
Example: The doctor is looking for a new office space to move his practice to next year.

Word: Spacious
Meaning: with a generous amount of space
Example: Since Frank and Janet have five kids; they need a spacious vehicle.

Word: Spade
Meaning: a garden shovel
Example: Digging into the dirt with the spade; the gardener made neat rows to hold his petunias.

Word: Spake
Meaning: a past tense form of speak and synonym for spoke
Example: Then the oracle came and spake to them; telling the crowd about a vision she had of impending doom.

Word: Spam
Meaning: unsolicited commercial e-mail sent to a large number of addresses
Example: The spam folder inside the email will allow the user to delete all unsolicited mail in one-click.

Word: Span
Meaning: the full extent of something from one end to the other
Example: The span of the woman’s hips was so wide that it was hard for her to find blue jeans to fit.

Word: Spangle
Meaning: a little flat shiny piece of metallic decoration commonly sewn on clothing
Example: Each spangle of the 500 spangles glistened in the sunlight from the young girl’s sparkling vest.

Word: Spanish
Meaning: related to the people; culture; or language of Spain
Example: Baroque is a type of Spanish architecture developed in Madrid during the 16th century.

Word: Spar
Meaning: to fight with the exchange of physical or verbal blows
Example: As they continued to spar back and forth; the political opponents both firmly held onto their positions.

Word: Spare
Meaning: replacement or additional
Example: Since we had a spare room available in our home; we housed a couple who was displaced from the hurricane.

Word: Sparing
Meaning: showing mercy or pardoning someone
Example: The Queen of Hearts never considered sparing anyone in Wonderland and screamed “Off with their heads” any chance she got.

Word: Sparingly
Meaning: in small amounts
Example: Use salt sparingly unless you want to increase your risk of having high blood pressure.

Word: Spark
Meaning: a trigger or stimulus
Example: One protest in the east of the country was a spark that set off a chain of demonstrations throughout the nation.

Word: Sparkle
Meaning: shine; glitter
Example: A sparkle in the princess’s bright eyes let the visiting prince know that she was interested in him.

Word: Sparse
Meaning: thin; inadequate
Example: With only a sparse supply of weapons; the villagers were worried they would not survive the attack.

Word: Spartan
Meaning: reflective of vast self-denial
Example: The décor in my apartment is spartan because I don’t have a lot of money for furnishings.

Word: Spasm
Meaning: contraction of a muscle
Example: Hiccups are usually due to spasm created by the diaphragm.

Word: Spasmodic
Meaning: occurring in an erratic manner
Example: Hopefully the medicine will control the number of spasmodic outbursts Henry has in class.

Word: Spat
Meaning: to quarrel or argue briefly
Example: Most couples make it through their first spat just fine.

Word: Spate
Meaning: a series or large amounts of
Example: A recent spate of employee changes left the company with an entirely new staff.

Word: Spatial
Meaning: pertaining to space and the relationship of objects within it
Example: Donna has excellent spatial awareness of all objects in her proximity.

Word: Spawn
Meaning: to generate or produce
Example: Big earthquakes tend to spawn smaller aftershocks that continue to rock the area for several hours or days.

Word: Speak
Meaning: to talk or say something
Example: The student was too shy to speak in front of her peers; so she never answered questions in class.

Word: Speakable
Meaning: able to be said or spoken
Example: Shaina had such a fear of public speaking that she found the words written on her paper barely speakable.

Word: Speakeasy
Meaning: an illegal bar or club that sold liquor during prohibition
Example: A narrow staircase lead to a speakeasy where bar patrons were getting their fill of illegal whiskey.

Word: Speaker
Meaning: someone who speaks or delivers speeches to a crowd
Example: The speaker approached the stage and received a standing ovation from the crowd waiting to hear her speak.

Word: Speakership
Meaning: a person that speaks formally to an audience; especially in a political forum
Example: The speakership stood in front of the podium and prepared to address the other city council members.

Word: Speaketh
Meaning: a form of the word speak
Example: Joseph dare not speaketh his father’s name since his mother seemed to hate him now.

Word: Spear
Meaning: to impale or pierce an object
Example: The Native American used a long rod to spear the fish right out of the water.

Word: Spearhead
Meaning: to lead an event or project
Example: Coach Marsh will spearhead our country’s gymnastic teams in the 2020 Olympics.

Word: Special
Meaning: a thing that is better or greater when compared with what is the norm
Example: The young ballerina has a special talent that allows her to outshine all of the other dancers.

Word: Specialist
Meaning: someone who is an expert or devoted to a particular area of study
Example: Only a health care specialist may perform surgical procedures on the patients.

Word: Specialization 
Meaning: the assumption of a specialized role in a certain area
Example: To build the cars in a timely manner; the workers will engage in labor specialization with each department concentrating on a certain task.

Word: Specialize
Meaning: to mention specially; to particularize
Example: The bakers specialize in catering for large parties.

Word: Specialty
Meaning: an area of study or skill that a person is focused on or particularly good at
Example: The chef’s specialty is Italian cuisine; but he also dabbles in French cooking.

Word: Speciation
Meaning: an evolutionary process that produces a new species
Example: Speciation led to a new species of fruit flies being formed through evolutionary means.

Word: Species
Meaning: a specific class of plants or animals
Example: Lewis and Clark discovered many new species of plants and animals while exploring the West.

Word: Specific
Meaning: clearly defined or identified
Example: The key to his success in portrait art was his ability to take each specific detail and transfer it to paper.

Word: Specificity
Meaning: the quality of being both clear and precise
Example: The specificity of the test is 100%; and there is no chance of a false positive.

Word: Specify
Meaning: to state something clearly and accurately
Example: Because my son gets lost a lot; I had to specify every turn he would need to take to reach the park he was visiting with his friends.

Word: Specimen
Meaning: that which is taken as an example of something or a portion used for testing
Example: Hopefully; the lab won’t find any cancer cells in the tissue specimen.

Word: Specious
Meaning: seems correct or true; but actually wrong or false; deceptive
Example: The intruder tried to give the authorities a specious excuse regarding his presence in the building.

Word: Speck
Meaning: a small particle
Example: A speck of dirt flew in the runner’s eye; making it difficult for her to focus on finishing the race.

Word: Spectacle
Meaning: a gripping event
Example: The priest was not impressed by the spectacle of the naked women on the stage.

Word: Spectacular
Meaning: having a magnificent impression or appearance
Example: At the end of the parade; the designer of the most spectacular float will win a trophy.

Word: Spectator
Meaning: someone who watches or observes
Example: The difficulty of gymnastics is easy to forget when you are a spectator watching the performance.

Word: Specter
Meaning: the spirit of a deceased individual
Example: The specter of my deceased mother haunts our family home.

Word: Spectra
Meaning: bands of light; as seen in a rainbow; that are produced by separation of light
Example: Spectra flowing through the prism appeared as bright as bands of rainbow colored light.

Word: Spectral 
Meaning: having a ghostly appearance
Example: The elderly woman was so ill she had a spectral appearance about her.

Word: Spectroscope
Meaning: a instrument used to analyze and break up white light up into the visible light spectrum
Example: The spectroscope was used to analyze the light of the planetary nebulas.

Word: Spectrum 
Meaning: an assorted range of responses; individuals; ideas; etc.
Example: The survey provided the company with a wide spectrum of feedback on its products.

Word: Speculate
Meaning: to form an opinion despite a lack of information or evidence
Example: Since I do not know Jim and Karen; I cannot speculate on the reasons behind their divorce.

Word: Speculation
Meaning: ideas or guessing based on faulty or incomplete information
Example: Although he wasn’t one hundred percent sure who committed the crime; speculation led the police chief to hone in on a suspect.

Word: Speculative
Meaning: based on a guess about the future
Example: With the weatherman predicting a very icy weekend; many people are making speculative food purchases and filling up their pantries.

Word: Sped
Meaning: moved in a fast manner
Example: As he sped down the track; the fastmoving racecar driver was careful not to flip his vehicle.

Word: Speech
Meaning: a formal talk delivered to an audience
Example: James practiced his speech over and over so he wouldn’t be nervous on stage.

Word: Speechless
Meaning: astonished; amazed
Example: The unlikely hero’s selfless acts of valor left the onlookers speechless.

Word: Speed
Meaning: the rate at which something is moving or able to move
Example: Light moves at a much faster speed than sound which is why thunder is always heard after lightning strikes.

Word: Speedily
Meaning: quickly
Example: Compared to the tortoise; the hare ran speedily in the direction of the finish line.

Word: Speedometer
Meaning: an instrument inside a vehicle that measures its speed
Example: The speedometer goes up to 140 miles per hour; but I don’t dare drive that fast.

Word: Spell
Meaning: to speak or write out the letters of a word in the correct order
Example: The teacher taught the children how to spell each word by sounding out each of the syllables.

Word: Spellbound
Meaning: mesmerized by something
Example: The spellbound child wouldn’t turn away from the magician.

Word: Spelt
Meaning: having written or named the letters of a word in the correct sentence
Example: The spelling bee contestant spelt the word wrong and her opponent took away the trophy.

Word: Spelunker
Meaning: someone who frequents and discovers caves
Example: After the spelunker finished searching through Carlsbad Cavern for days; he finally had the information he needed to write his travel article.

Word: Spendthrift
Meaning: an individual who uses money in an irresponsible way
Example: Because the lottery winner was a spendthrift; he spent his winnings in less than a year.

Word: Spent
Meaning: paid out money; time; or resources
Example: We spent several thousand dollars buying furniture for our new home.

Word: Spew
Meaning: to forcefully expel a large amount of something
Example: The elephant gathered a great deal of water in its trunk so it could spew it at its offspring and help the baby clean itself.

Word: Sphere
Meaning: an area of activity; expertise; or interest
Example: Although she was not in his sphere of command; she still respected him as a leader.

Word: Spherical
Meaning: round in shape
Example: Placing the spherical lens cap on the camera; the photographer packed up for the day and headed back to her cabin.

Word: Spheroid
Meaning: a 3-D elongated globe or ball shaped similar to an egg
Example: As the spheroid came toward me; I realized that my friend was simply throwing me his pigskin football.

Word: Sphinx
Meaning: a mythological creature with the head of a human and the body of a lion
Example: The Egyptian Sphinx statue has the head of a pharaoh and the base of a lion.

Word: Spiel
Meaning: a lengthy and extravagant speech or argument usually intended to persuade
Example: The teacher gave his usual spiel about the importance of completing all assignments; but the students just yawned.

Word: Spigot
Meaning: a device used to control the flow of liquid
Example: Turning the spigot on the side of the building; the thirsty traveler rejoiced as water began to seep out from the faucet.

Word: Spike
Meaning: a sharp rise or influx
Example: A sharp spike in flu patients pointed to a looming epidemic.

Word: Spill
Meaning: to cause liquid to overflow
Example: The sippy cup is supposed to be leak resistant and not allow any liquid to spill from the lid.

Word: Spin
Meaning: to whirl or twist around in a circular motion
Example: The nutcracker dancers began to spin around; whirling to the beat of the music.

Word: Spindle
Meaning: a thin rod or stick with a pointed end
Example: The spindle on the record player dropped down and the needle skimmed the surface of the disc.

Word: Spindly
Meaning: tall and thin
Example: The dancer was tall and spindly; with thin legs that seemed to go up to her shoulders.

Word: Spine
Meaning: the backbone or vertebral column
Example: The young man is affected by scoliosis of the back; otherwise known as a curvature of the spine.

Word: Spineless
Meaning: lacking courage or willpower
Example: Critics condemned the government’s decision to back down from the war as spineless.

Word: Spineless
Meaning: lacking courage or strength
Example: The spineless banker was too weak and pathetic to admit that he was the one who had stolen the money.

Word: Spinet
Meaning: a small; electronic organ that was popular in the 16th century
Example: Pressing the keys on the spinet; the organ player had learned to enjoy the harpsicord as much has own instrument.

Word: Spinning
Meaning: turning around in a circular pattern
Example: The dizzy boy felt that his head was spinning after turning around several times.

Word: Spinous
Meaning: having bristles or being spikey
Example: Children were warned not to touch the spinous plant located near the playground because its thorns would hurt if they touched it.

Word: Spinster
Meaning: a woman who has never been married; especially one past the typical marrying age according to social traditions
Example: They call Mrs. Smith on Padding Lane an old spinster; but she never wanted to be married and settled down.

Word: Spiral
Meaning: a curved shape that winds round and round to form a helix or coil
Example: Twirling a single spiral of her hair; the damsel admired her luscious curls in the mirror.

Word: Spire
Meaning: a top part or structure that tapers upward
Example: This particular cathedral is known for its towering steeple which contains the tallest spire in the nation.

Word: Spirit
Meaning: the soul or nonphysical part of a person that is made up of emotions and character
Example: Feeling that her departed husband’s spirit was still near; the widow held a séance in hopes that he would speak to her.

Word: Spirited
Meaning: full of energy and enthusiasm
Example: Spirited cheerleaders chanted and cheered for their players.

Word: Spirited
Meaning: lively and full of energy
Example: Because she is spirited; the cheerleader always smiles and acts lively while on the field.

Word: Spiritual
Meaning: related to the human spirit or soul
Example: Buddhists believe that a spiritual path to enlightenment is possible for human souls that are able to find the truth about life.

Word: Spirituality
Meaning: relating too or concerned with the soul or spirit instead of the physical body
Example: Because he was so interested in spirituality; the pastor read and wrote many books about where the soul goes after death.

Word: Spiritually
Meaning: in a way that is related to the human spirit or soul
Example: Prayer and meditation are both ways to keep yourself spiritually healthy.

Word: Spite
Meaning: to purposefully hurt or offend someone
Example: The bitter woman took her children out of the country just to spite her ex-husband for leaving her.

Word: Spiteful
Meaning: displaying an inclination to anger; harm; or defeat an individual
Example: Cathy used spiteful words to insult her rival.

Word: Splash
Meaning: to cause liquid to splatter irregularly
Example: The baby elephants began to splash around in the lagoon under the noonday sun.

Word: Splay
Meaning: to spread wide apart
Example: After placing her hands at her side; the dancer began to splay her arms further and further apart until reaching the next position.

Word: Spleen
Meaning: an abdominal organ that produces lymphocytes and filters blood
Example: A major part of the immune system; the abdominal spleen filters the body’s blood.

Word: Splendid
Meaning: extremely beautiful and impressive
Example: Did you hear the splendid news about Ann’s long-awaited pregnancy?

Word: Splendiferous
Meaning: very beautiful or special
Example: Standing on the balcony; the vacationer was in awe of the splendiferous view of the city.

Word: Splendor
Meaning: brilliance or glory
Example: The people were amazed at the splendor of the queen’s diamond-encrusted crown.

Word: Splendorous
Meaning: magnificent; gloriously impressive
Example: The splendorous pyramid was built thousands of years ago; but still stands in all its glory.

Word: Splenetic 
Meaning: short-tempered
Example: Because my uncle has a splenetic personality; it does not take a great deal to get on his bad side.

Word: Splice
Meaning: to join or connect (usually a rope) by interweaving the end of the strands
Example: The TV tech will need to splice the ends of the cables together for a connection to be made.

Word: Split
Meaning: divided
Example: The pizza was split into twelve pieces and divided among the partygoers.

Word: Splotch
Meaning: a noticeable mark or spot
Example: I’ll use a bleach pen to remove the red splotch from my white shirt.

Word: Splurge
Meaning: to spend in an extravagant manner
Example: If I win the lottery; I can splurge and buy anything I want.

Word: Spoil 
Meaning: to lessen the value or worth of something
Example: Adding too much salt to the potatoes will spoil the Shepherd’s Pie.

Word: Spoiler
Meaning: information published that tells you about a tv show or movie you haven’t watched that ruins the surprise
Example: The Avengers movie spoilers filled the internet and ruined the film for those who hadn’t seen it yet.

Word: Spoils System
Meaning: gaining favor or positions in a system for being well liked or making a monetary contribution
Example: Some argue that President Trump has a spoils system in place because all of the open political offices are given to his unqualified friends.

Word: Spoke
Meaning: uttered words
Example: The love-stricken maiden spoke to the pirate and asked him to take her with him on his next adventure.

Word: Sponsor
Meaning: a supporter or benefactor
Example: The bill’s sponsor traveled around the country asking voters to support the bill as she did.

Word: Spontaneity
Meaning: the act of being impulsive
Example: It was an act of spontaneity for my normally unromantic husband to bring me flowers.

Word: Spontaneous
Meaning: natural without planning or thought
Example: If you have to plan in order to be spontaneous; then you’re not acting naturally upon instinct.

Word: Spooky
Meaning: scary in a strange and frightening way
Example: Because the haunted house is spooky; the children are scared to enter the abandoned building alone.

Word: Spool
Meaning: a device with a cylinder shape that is used to hold tightly wrapped material such as thread or film
Example: Unravelling the fishing line wrapped tightly around the spool; the fisherman prepared to cast his pole.

Word: Spoonerism
Meaning: a phrase in which the speaker accidentally swiches the first sounds of two words
Example: A common spoonerism is saying one has “drain bramage” when meaning “brain damage”.

Word: Spoor
Meaning: the track; trail; droppings or scent of an animal
Example: If the police don’t find and start following the spoor of a child abductor within the first two hours; the chances of getting that child back alive start to diminish greatly.

Word: Sporadic
Meaning: occurring occasionally
Example: Since my father left my mother and me twenty years ago; he has made sporadic appearances in my life.

Word: Spore
Meaning: a one-celled reproductive unit capable of growing into a new lifeform without sexual combination
Example: A single fungus spore can grow into an entirely new mushroom.

Word: Sport
Meaning: to wear or display something distinctive
Example: Bob likes to sport a bright orange t-shirt whenever he goes into town.

Word: Sportive
Meaning: playful and lively
Example: Although the tried to focus on school work; their study sessions always seemed to take a sportive turn.

Word: Sportsmanship
Meaning: fair and good-mannered behavior while participating in a competition of some sort
Example: Exhibiting good sportsmanship and being nice to your fellow players is just as important as winning the game.

Word: Spot
Meaning: to notice or recognize something that wasn’t immediately obvious
Example: Laura managed to spot the airplane among the white of the sky’s clouds.

Word: Spotless
Meaning: completely clean or devoid of blemishes
Example: There’s no such thing as a spotless car because there will always be more dirt somewhere.

Word: Spotlight
Meaning: a lamp with a narrow high power beam for illuminating small areas
Example: A police helicopter is equipped with a spotlight to search for people in the dark.

Word: Spouse
Meaning: an individual who is wed to another person
Example: Once I marry Frank; he will become my spouse.

Word: Sprain
Meaning: to twist the ligaments of a joint badly enough to cause pain and swelling but not tear it
Example: You sprain your ankle if you twist it too far in a direction it’s not supposed to go.

Word: Sprang
Meaning: moved or jumped up suddenly
Example: After crouching behind a dumpster for several minutes; the robber suddenly sprang up and sprinted out of the alley.

Word: Sprawl
Meaning: to develop or spread without limitation
Example: If we don’t manage the bushes; they'll sprawl onto our neighbor’s property.

Word: Sprawled
Meaning: spread out over a wide area with little organization
Example: The ramshackle shanty town was comprised of wooden shacks sprawled about the valley.

Word: Spray
Meaning: to apply liquid in a shower of tiny drops
Example: My dad used the water hose to spray water on the brown grass of his yard.

Word: Spread
Meaning: to extend something’s surface area; height; or width
Example: The chef spread the raw pizza dough from its compact ball to a flat circle on the table.

Word: Spreadsheet
Meaning: a computer document that uses rows and columns to organize data
Example: Microsoft Excel is what most people use to create a spreadsheet on their computer.

Word: Spree
Meaning: a time period in which individual(s) engage in a great deal of something
Example: When the crime spree ended six people were dead.

Word: Sprig
Meaning: a small plant stem with leaves or flowers on it
Example: Please tear a sprig from that bunch of parsley to garnish that plate with before serving it.

Word: Sprightly
Meaning: full of vigor; active
Example: The sprightly old woman walks two miles every day.

Word: Spring
Meaning: to originate from
Example: The car was an idea that was likely to spring from the wagon.

Word: Springboard
Meaning: a sturdy yet flexible board that is jumped on to provide momentum
Example: The diver used a springboard to properly him through the air during the Olympics.

Word: Sprinkle
Meaning: to scatter or pour small amounts of a substance over a surface or object
Example: If your food is bland you should sprinkle some salt or pepper on it.

Word: Sprint
Meaning: to speed over a short area
Example: About fifty feet from the finish line; Gail will probably sprint and soar past the other runners.

Word: Sprite
Meaning: a computer graphic that can be moved on screen and manipulated
Example: The image of character you control in a video game is a sprite.

Word: Sprout 
Meaning: to develop or shoot forth
Example: The young students are eager gardeners ready to see their seeds sprout.

Word: Spruce
Meaning: to make something clean or neat or to be stylish or clean
Example: We are having guests so please spruce up before dinner.

Word: Sprung
Meaning: to have suddenly and rapidly moved or jumped
Example: The tiger sprung from its hiding place to ambush its prey in the jungle.

Word: Spry
Meaning: full of energy and get-up-and-go
Example: The spry old woman runs three miles every morning.

Word: Spume
Meaning: foam of sea water
Example: Beer foam and bubbly coffee froth look similar to ocean spume.

Word: Spun
Meaning: to have turned or twisted quickly
Example: The ballerina spun around on stage with flair and grace.

Word: Spunk
Meaning: courage; determination
Example: Although she wasn’t the fastest runner; the jogger’s spunk helped her push towards the finish line.

Word: Spunky
Meaning: courageous and full of spirit
Example: Spunky and full of spirit; the little girl is known for always doing things that others are afraid to do.

Word: Spur of the moment
Meaning: happening impulsively and without planning
Example: Izzy loves spur of the moment vacations and prefers going on impulsive trips over planned ones.

Word: Spur
Meaning: to motivate an individual or group into action
Example: The chance to win a scholarship should spur my daughter into studying for the college admissions test.

Word: Spurious
Meaning: not real or genuine
Example: After receiving a low appraisal on my diamond ring; I realized the suspicious-looking jeweler had sold me a spurious jewel.

Word: Spurn
Meaning: to reject; turn down
Example: Mikey is such a picky eater that he will spurn everything except chicken nuggets and ice cream.

Word: Spurt 
Meaning: an unexpected short surge of activity; development or effort
Example: During a recent growth spurt; Ted grew three inches.

Word: Sputter
Meaning: to spit or speak in an explosive manner
Example: When oil started to sputter from the car; I knew I wasn’t going home anytime soon.

Word: Spy
Meaning: to secretly collect information on competition or adversaries for a particular organization
Example: Sometimes a company will send someone to spy on the competition to see what they’re up to.

Word: Squabble
Meaning: minor fight or argument
Example: The old couple was known to squabble about even the most trivial things.

Word: Squadron
Meaning: a unit of the military that consists of ships; aircraft; or fighters
Example: There are over six hundred soldiers in the army squadron on its way to the base.

Word: Squalid
Meaning: extremely dirty and unpleasant
Example: The homeless man had no choice but to sleep in squalid conditions.

Word: Squall
Meaning: to cry or wail loudly
Example: I left the house because the squall of our new born baby was grating on my nerves.

Word: Squalor
Meaning: poor and dirty conditions
Example: Because the homeless man did not have running water; he was used to living in squalor.

Word: Squander
Meaning: to waste
Example: Because time is one thing you can never get back again; you should always make an effort not to squander a minute on trivial pursuits.

Word: Square
Meaning: directly or head-on
Example: My arrow hit the target square in the center.

Word: Squash
Meaning: to crush; press or mash
Example: If you aren’t careful; you will squash the banana and it will be smeared all over your new bag.

Word: Squat
Meaning: to bend deeply at the knees while resting on one's feet
Example: As she squat down; the trainer could feel her leg muscles growing stronger.

Word: Squatter
Meaning: an individual who lives on a property without having an arrangement with the property manager or owner
Example: My daughter’s boyfriend thought he would become a squatter by moving into my house without my permission.

Word: Squaw
Meaning: a term for a Native American woman
Example: Since she isn’t a North American Indian woman; she isn’t a squaw.

Word: Squawk
Meaning: to protest or grumble noisily with passion
Example: My rebellious daughter started to squawk when I told her she couldn’t attend her friend’s sleepover.

Word: Squeak
Meaning: emit a short; high-pitched sound
Example: As the dog bit down on the plastic toy; it would squeak.

Word: Squeal
Meaning: to send forth a shrill exclamation or noise
Example: Did you hear my sixteen-year-old daughter squeal when she saw her new car?

Word: Squeamish 
Meaning: easily made nauseous
Example: My husband has a weak stomach and becomes squeamish whenever he sees blood.

Word: Squeeze
Meaning: to firmly press
Example: After adding the sugar; squeeze and crush the lemon in the pitcher for homemade lemonade.

Word: Squelch
Meaning: to halt; stop; eliminate
Example: When Justin runs wildly around the house; it takes every ounce of my strength to squelch my urge to slap him.

Word: Squint
Meaning: to look with the eyes partly closed
Example: Since the sun was shining bright into my eyes; I had to squint to see.

Word: Squire
Meaning: the young apprentice of a knight that is training to become a knight himself
Example: The young man became a squire when the knight Sir Lothal accepted him as an attendant.

Word: Squirm
Meaning: to move about in distress as a result of fear or shame
Example: As the teacher told my parents about my bad behavior; I started to squirm in my chair.

Word: Squirrel
Meaning: to hide or store something in a safe and secure location
Example: People that want to keep their valuables safe should squirrel them away in a safe.

Word: Squirt
Meaning: to eject a liquid from a small opening in a thin stream
Example: Poke a hole in a water bottle with a needle and you can squirt water out of it.

Word: Stability
Meaning: a state of security and firmness
Example: A building needs a foundation with enough stability to support its weight.

Word: Stabilize
Meaning: to make something stable or steady
Example: The doctor worked to stabilize the patient so that he could take him into surgery.

Word: Stable
Meaning: the human state of being balanced; sensible; and sane
Example: The Joker from Batman is not a stable individual in any way.

Word: Staccato
Meaning: associated with brief disconnected sounds
Example: When the police entered the home; they heard the staccato sound of a gun.

Word: Stack
Meaning: to arrange objects in a typically neat pile
Example: The teacher had to stack all of the student’s papers to keep them organized.

Word: Staff
Meaning: people employed by an organization or company
Example: The cashiers that work at Walmart are part of Walmart’s staff.

Word: Stagehands
Meaning: people who move scenery or props before; during; or; after a play or stage performance
Example: The stagehands were asked to carry several pieces of furniture off set and into the storage rooms.

Word: Stagger
Meaning: to cause to waver or doubt
Example: If my father doesn’t stagger on his decision; I won’t be able to attend the sleepover.

Word: Staggering 
Meaning: quite surprising; shocking; or large
Example: The staggering price of gasoline will probably keep drivers off the roads during the holiday weekend.

Word: Stagnant
Meaning: not moving or increasing
Example: Because John needs more money and his current salary has been stagnant for three years; he is looking for a new job.

Word: Staid
Meaning: serious; boring; or old-fashioned
Example: In his business suit; my staid boyfriend looked out of place in the wild nightclub.

Word: Stain
Meaning: a mark or blemish that is difficult to get rid of
Example: There is a stain on Mark’s white shirt from the grape juice he spilled.

Word: Stair
Meaning: one single step in a flight of stairs
Example: If you miss a stair going downstairs you will probably trip and fall.

Word: Stake
Meaning: a strong metal or wooden post that is driven into something to hold it in place
Example: The campers nailed the final stake into the ground so that their tent would be held in place.

Word: Stakeholder
Meaning: someone with interest in a company or organization
Example: Any stakeholder and financial investor of this corporation owns stock in the company.

Word: Stale
Meaning: food that is no longer fresh and has become hard; dry; or otherwise unpleasant
Example: Bread that has become hard; dry; and crusty is stale.

Word: Stalemate
Meaning: a situation in which movement is not possible by either side
Example: A stalemate was reached when neither of the chess players could make a legitimate move.

Word: Stalk
Meaning: to slowly and secretly follow a person or animal
Example: According to the psychologist; the killer will normally stalk his victim for several days.

Word: Stall
Meaning: to stop or prevent progress or advancement
Example: We had to stall our mom outside with conversation because our dad wasn’t done setting up the surprise party yet.

Word: Stallion
Meaning: a fully-grown mare
Example: At the end of the Kentucky Derby; a stallion named Douglas Boy crossed the line first winning the prize.

Word: Stalwart
Meaning: extremely dedicated and loyal
Example: The stalwart dog refused to leave his owner’s grave.

Word: Stamen
Meaning: the male organ of a flower that contains the pollen for fertilization
Example: The stamen of a flower holds all of the pollen that will be used to fertilize the seeds in other flowers.

Word: Stamina
Meaning: strength that allows a person or animal to keep going forward
Example: During basic training; a soldier will run lots of miles to increase his physical stamina.

Word: Stammer
Meaning: stutter; have difficulty getting the words out
Example: "This is how my friend would stammer when he gets nervous; ""My-my-my-my-my-my name is Robbie."""

Word: Stammered
Meaning: spoken in duplicate or with uncontrollable gaps
Example: The inexperienced actor stammered nervously through his first press conference.

Word: Stamp
Meaning: to forcefully bring your foot down on something
Example: Most people stamp on a spider with their shoe if they see one.

Word: Stampede
Meaning: an unexpected movement of a group or to rush rowdily in a state of panic
Example: It took over a dozen wranglers to stop the cattle stampede.

Word: Stance
Meaning: one’s opinion or point of view
Example: Many citizens were in agreement with the governor’s stance on the matter.

Word: Stanch
Meaning: to stop the flow of blood from a wound
Example: Having already used all of his medical supplies treating other soldiers; the medic had no choice but to try and stanch the bleeding of his next victim with his bare hands.

Word: Stanchion
Meaning: a bar or post that is used to form a barrier or provide support
Example: Technically the leg of a table is a stanchion since it provides support for it.

Word: Stand
Meaning: an attitude or position taken on an issue or belief
Example: If you don’t agree with something someone else says; you might take a stand against them.

Word: Standard
Meaning: a typical or expected level of quality
Example: A standard life in America includes having a house and a car.

Word: Standardize
Meaning: to change something to the standard or convention
Example: Math is an academic art that we had to standardize so it would make sense to everyone.

Word: Standoffish
Meaning: unsociable and unfriendly
Example: Once the student was told that his behavior resulted in a suspension; he became standoffish toward the principal who was asking him questions.

Word: Standstill
Meaning: a situation of no movement or activity; halt
Example: As a result of the ten-car pile-up; traffic came to a standstill.

Word: Stanza
Meaning: a portion of a poem displayed in paragraph form
Example: The first stanza of the poem introduces us to the misguided lovers.

Word: Staple
Meaning: a primary part of something. A key component
Example: Vegetables are a staple part of a healthy diet if you want to stay in shape.

Word: Star
Meaning: a luminous celestial body; such as the sun; comprised of gasses held together by its own gravity
Example: The most common star that we are all familiar with is the Sun.

Word: Starboard
Meaning: right-hand side
Example: A central passageway leads to the right; starboard side where most of the crew sleep.

Word: Starch
Meaning: a white; tasteless carbohydrate found in many foods including potatoes and cereals
Example: The fluffier a potato is; the more starch (carbohydrate) it contains.

Word: Stardom
Meaning: the condition of being an extremely well-known performer
Example: The actor’s stardom is so widespread he can’t leave home without being recognized.

Word: Stare
Meaning: to gaze at something intently
Example: As she continued to stare into her crystal ball; the oracle never lifted her gaze as she forewarned city leaders about tough times to come.

Word: Staring
Meaning: the act of focusing on someone intently with your gaze
Example: When I looked up from my worksheet in class; I found that the teacher was staring at me; likely because she did not think I could be done as quickly as I was.

Word: Stark
Meaning: plain; without decoration
Example: With only a small red dot on a white canvas; the painting looked quite stark.

Word: Starring
Meaning: taking part in a movie; play; or show as a primary performer
Example: The most popular movies are starring famous actors that everybody knows and loves.

Word: Starry-eyed
Meaning: overly optimistic and positive to the point of being naive and idealistic
Example: The starry-eyed girl spent her days daydreaming instead of focusing on her future.

Word: Start
Meaning: to begin or set off
Example: Natalie has decided to start a new diet and will begin her new way of eating tomorrow morning.

Word: Startle
Meaning: to frighten or surprise an individual
Example: If the music is too loud; it will startle the sleeping baby.

Word: Startled
Meaning: to be alarmed or frightened by something sudden
Example: A deer will be startled if you get too close to it.

Word: Startling
Meaning: very surprising; shocking; or unusual
Example: A sudden crash in the silent classroom was startling for anyone around.

Word: Starvation
Meaning: extreme hunger to the point of being life threatening
Example: During the Irish famine; many citizens were dying from starvation because no crops were growing in the fields.

Word: Starve
Meaning: to suffer or die from severe hunger
Example: A human being will begin to starve if they don’t eat for several days.

Word: Stash
Meaning: to store something in a safe and secret place for future use
Example: Lindsey uses an old shoe box to stash all of her photos.

Word: Stasis
Meaning: a period of inactivity
Example: Diana’s coma has caused her to be in stasis.

Word: State of nature
Meaning: a theory that describes a wild; primitive state that is untouched by society
Example: Some theorists believe that humans once lived a peaceful life in the state of nature before society took over.

Word: State Of The Art
Meaning: at the highest level of development; cutting-edge
Example: My parents bought me a used desktop computer when I wanted a brand new; state of the art laptop.

Word: State
Meaning: to say something; either out loud or on paper
Example: Eli will state his case to the judge in the morning in hopes that he will rule in his favor.

Word: State
Meaning: the current condition that someone or something is in
Example: Mary hasn’t been in a very good mental state since her dog died; holing herself up in her room and barely talking to anyone.

Word: State
Meaning: the condition or status of an object or situation
Example: The landlord’s last tenants left his rental home destroyed and in a terrible state.

Word: Stately
Meaning: having a remarkable appearance
Example: All eyes were on the stately well-dressed man as he walked towards the podium.

Word: Statement
Meaning: something written or said formally
Example: The police officer asked the eyewitness to give a statement about what she saw happen at the crime scene.

Word: Static
Meaning: fix; unchanging
Example: Since the webpage is static; its content will not change.

Word: Station
Meaning: a location where a particular service is based
Example: If you wish to board a train you will probably have to go to the train station.

Word: Stationary 
Meaning: fixed in one place
Example: During the ice storm; I drove into a stationary car that was parked in front of a house.

Word: Stationery
Meaning: fancy writing paper with matching envelopes
Example: Each piece of pink stationery held a matching pink envelope waiting to be written upon.

Word: Statue
Meaning: a carved or cast depiction of a person or animal; usually life-sized or greater
Example: There is a statue of Abraham Lincoln in the Lincoln Memorial.

Word: Stature
Meaning: a level of prestige earned for a deed or achievement
Example: As a five-time Grammy winner; Aretha has a huge stature in the music community.

Word: Status Quo
Meaning: the way things are
Example: Because the council wants to maintain the status quo; they will not vote to add another member to the group.

Word: Status
Meaning: the standing of a person or thing in particular areas such as social; economic; and prestige
Example: You have good financial status if you live in a mansion and own a yacht.

Word: Statute
Meaning: a law passed by a formal body such as a legislature
Example: The statute prohibits businesses from selling alcohol to minors.

Word: Staunch
Meaning: loyal; trustworthy; reliable; outstanding
Example: Although Joseph considers himself to be a staunch Republican; he has not voted for a Republican candidate in over six years.

Word: Stave
Meaning: to prevent or delay something bad or undesirable
Example: Getting a vaccination can stave off the flu during flu season.

Word: Stay
Meaning: to remain in the same position or place
Example: If you are grounded you must stay in your room.

Word: Stead
Meaning: a role or task someone or something is supposed to fill as a substitute
Example: You were supposed to go to the meeting in Zach’s stead since he was sick.

Word: Steadfast
Meaning: faithful to a person; belief; or goal
Example: My mother really loved my father and remained steadfast to her marriage vows even after my father died.

Word: Steadily
Meaning: in a regular or controlled manner
Example: You should be breathing steadily if you are just sitting down.

Word: Steady
Meaning: firmly fixed and not moving (or shaking
Example: The golfer kept his club steady and still until he was ready to swing it toward the ball.

Word: Steal
Meaning: to take another person’s property without permission
Example: Thieves steal small valuables like watches out of people’s homes.

Word: Stealthy
Meaning: marked by quiet and secrecy in order to avoid being noticed
Example: You must be stealthy if you hope to sneak inside without being noticed.

Word: Steam
Meaning: water vapor that is created when water is heated to a certain point
Example: The boiling pot of tea on the stove was giving off a lot of steam.

Word: Steed
Meaning: a strong horse that is used for riding purposes
Example: Even on a speedy steed; it will take the cavalry scout several days to reach his fort.

Word: Steel
Meaning: to mentally prepare yourself for something
Example: John had to steel himself for the vaccination because he hates needles.

Word: Steep
Meaning: excessive or high
Example: I can’t afford the steep rates at this hotel so I guess I’ll be sleeping in my car tonight.

Word: Steeped
Meaning: soaked in a liquid
Example: After the tea was steeped; it was served to the guests at the tea room.

Word: Steeple 
Meaning: a tall pointed tower on a church
Example: Although it had not rang in centuries; the bell tower below the steeple still contained a long-standing metal bell.

Word: Steer
Meaning: to guide or control which direction one is going
Example: Unable to steer his horse in the right direction; the frustrated equestrian decided to take a break.

Word: Steerage
Meaning: cheapest class of accommodation in a ship with no individual cabins
Example: Steerage is the lower deck of a ship; a large open space that it is near the steering gear.

Word: Stellar
Meaning: pertaining to the stars
Example: Because city lights make it difficult to fully enjoy the stellar beauty; stand in a dark and cloudless area to get the best stargazing experience possible.

Word: Stem
Meaning: the main stalk of a plant where the leaves and the flowers branch off of
Example: Quickly; Henry yanked the stem of a flower while his sweetheart’s back was turned and gave it to her after she turned around.

Word: Stench
Meaning: a very unpleasant odor
Example: The stench of the dead rat drove us from the house and into a hotel.

Word: Stencil
Meaning: to color or paint a design or picture using a template where the shape has been cut out
Example: To stencil the figure onto the wall; the artist taped the cardboard in the correct place and painted over it.

Word: Stenographer
Meaning: someone who types the words people say
Example: Struggling to keep up with the fast talking attorney; the stenographer wrote as quickly as possible.

Word: Stentorian
Meaning: incredibly loud
Example: The stentorian music was so loud it made my head hurt.

Word: Step
Meaning: a stride in one’s walks
Example: Since I was not looking where I was going; my next step was directly into a sticky pile of bubble gum.

Word: Steppe
Meaning: dry; grass-covered land that is normally flat
Example: A steppe is a landform that is flat and covered with grass.

Word: Stepping stone
Meaning: something that helps one progress to the next level
Example: Shawn saw this entry level job as a stepping stone to a more rewarding career.

Word: Stereophonic
Meaning: pertaining to an audio duplicate or imitation using at least two pathways
Example: Since the young girl wanted a clearer sound; she brought out her stereophonic record player to listen to music.

Word: Stereotype
Meaning: an unfair impression that has been developed about a person or race
Example: While many people believe the stereotype all teenagers are lazy; their beliefs are false.

Word: Sterile
Meaning: devoid of germs
Example: Use a disinfectant solution to make the table sterile.

Word: Sterling
Meaning: pertaining to the utmost quality of silver with it being at least 92% authentic silver
Example: When the prissy woman was trying to impress her friends; she decided to bring out the sterling silver tea set.

Word: Stern
Meaning: harsh; hard or severe in character or manner
Example: Although our camp counselor is soft and fun loving; he can get mean and stern if provoked.

Word: Sternly
Meaning: in a harsh way
Example: After the last chapter’s horrible test grades; the teacher spoke sternly to her class about studying for the next test.

Word: Sternum
Meaning: a bone located down the center of a human’s chest that is attached to the rib cage
Example: Since Andy wasn’t wearing a seatbelt during the car accident; his sternum was fractured from being thrown against the steering wheel.

Word: Sternutation
Meaning: sneezing as an action; fact; noise
Example: When Cassie walked into the girls bathroom between classes she was greeted by a odious cloud of perfume that sparked a fit of sternutation.

Word: Stertorous
Meaning: breathing in a noisy and heavy way
Example: The husband’s stertorous breathing kept his wife up all night long.

Word: Stethoscope
Meaning: a medical tool that allows a practitioner to listen to body sounds; usually noises from the lungs and heart
Example: The doctor used his stethoscope to listen to the sick child’s lungs.

Word: Stevedore
Meaning: someone employed to load/unload cargo; specifically for ships
Example: In an industry heavily focused on imports and exports; working as a stevedore unloading ships pays relatively well.

Word: Stew
Meaning: an assortment of meat; vegetables; and/or stock cooked for a period of time and occasionally placed over a starch
Example: Bouillabaisse is a traditional French stew made with fish; an assortment of seafood; and broth.

Word: Steward
Meaning: an individual who is tasked with protecting another person’s interests
Example: The steward will be along each month to collect the rent from the property owner’s tenants.

Word: Stewardship
Meaning: the management or supervision of something
Example: Under Coach Todd’s stewardship; the team won three national championships.

Word: Stick-in-the-mud
Meaning: a person who is too serious and refuses to take part in anything fun
Example: Quite the prude; Ladonna is a stick-in-the-mud who hates to see anyone having a good time.

Word: Stick
Meaning: a piece of wood; usually thin; that has been crafted for a specific purpose
Example: The eager campers searched high and low through the dense foliage to find the perfect stick to roast marshmallows on.

Word: Stickler
Meaning: an individual who insists a task should be completed in a certain manner
Example: Because the drill sergeant is a stickler for details; he makes us check everything four times.

Word: Stiff
Meaning: physically inflexible or hard
Example: By the time the criminal investigators uncovered the body it was already stiff with rigor mortis.

Word: Stiff
Meaning: rigid and unable to be easily bent or shaped
Example: When she sits down for a long period of time; the elderly woman’s bones become stiff and rigid.

Word: Stifling
Meaning: overpowering to the point of being suffocating or preventing progress
Example: The hot temperature is so stifling it is pulling all the energy out of my body.

Word: Stigma
Meaning: a sign of disgrace
Example: Once upon a time; the stigma of being an unwed mother led many young women to attempt suicide.

Word: Stigmata
Meaning: plural form of stigma; denoting multiple physical or symbolic forms of disgrace which mar an individual’s reputation
Example: In Nathaniel Hawthorne’s The Scarlet Letter; Hester Prynne is forced to wear red ‘A’’s on her clothes as stigmata.

Word: Stile
Meaning: steps or handholds built into something that enables a person to scale a wall or fence
Example: Before ladders were invented; many fortifications had a stile built into the wall that soldiers could climb up to scale the wall.

Word: Still
Meaning: devoid of motion; movement; or sound
Example: The meteorologist warned citizens to be leery of the still trees because the lack of movement was only a natural calm before the fiercest weather struck.

Word: Stilted
Meaning: unnatural; stiff in form or tone
Example: After the divorce; my parents' conversations were stilted and far from natural.

Word: Stimulant
Meaning: an object or person that triggers action or excitement
Example: Because caffeine is a stimulant; it often makes my heart race.

Word: Stimulate
Meaning: to incite interest in something or inspire action
Example: The goal of any great teacher is to craft exciting lessons that will stimulate their students to want to learn.

Word: Stimulus 
Meaning: anything that triggers a change
Example: Because the acid causes the mixture to burn; it is the stimulus in the experiment.

Word: Sting
Meaning: an irritation or pain caused by rubbing against a poisonous substance or receiving a piercing bite from a venomous creature
Example: The sting of the bumblebee felt like wildfire rapidly spreading across his skin.

Word: Stingy
Meaning: lacking generosity or the capacity to spend money
Example: Ebenezer Scrooge valued money more than friendship and because of his stingy habit of hording money and refusing to help those in need; he had no true friends.

Word: Stint
Meaning: a span of time in which a person is occupied with a particular job or in a particular place
Example: After a two-year stint as a Peace Corps volunteer; I returned home and became a teacher.

Word: Stipend
Meaning: a small sum of money that is given to an individual on a regular basis
Example: While serving in the Peace Corps; I was paid a monthly stipend which I used to buy toiletries and other essentials.

Word: Stipulate
Meaning: to insist upon something as a condition of an agreement
Example: The owners may stipulate a huge deposit as a condition of the purchase agreement.

Word: Stipulation
Meaning: a condition that is attached to an arrangement or deal
Example: So that the shoplifting charges would be dismissed; the teenager had to abide by one stipulation which was to refrain from getting in trouble again.

Word: Stir
Meaning: to disturb or provoke
Example: When Sarah heard Martha gossiping; she decided to stir up some drama by telling Martha’s friends about her gossiping nature.

Word: Stirred
Meaning: to blend elements together with a utensil
Example: On the Homemade Food Cooking Show; the chef stirred the gumbo with a large wooden spoon.

Word: Stitch
Meaning: to join something together by sewing
Example: Since my prom dress was too big in the back; I decided to take it to a seamstress who could stitch it up and make it fit.

Word: Stochastic
Meaning: having a probability or random factor
Example: “Everyone knows that people who smoke cigarettes for many years are living a stochastic life since they might get cancer;” the doctor told his patient.

Word: Stock
Meaning: to supply or carry items
Example: Waiting for the county to stock Miller’s Pond with fish; the avid fisherman decided to move to another pond.

Word: Stockade
Meaning: a formation of grounded posts used as a defensive measure
Example: From behind the fort’s wooden stockade; the soldiers fired at the Indians.

Word: Stocking
Meaning: a tight article of clothing for the foot resembling a sock usually made of nylon or cotton
Example: While the older lady walked down the street; her stocking rolled down her leg exposing the scar on her ankle.

Word: Stocky
Meaning: sturdy and solid shape usually in humans or animals
Example: With a stocky frame; her blind date was rather short but it looked like he could bench press over 200 pounds.

Word: Stodgy
Meaning: having old-fashioned beliefs and feelings
Example: The stodgy old man did not believe women should work outside of the home.

Word: Stoic
Meaning: describing one who is not moved by pain or pleasure
Example: My stoic uncle showed no emotion at his wife’s funeral.

Word: Stoical
Meaning: tolerating hurt or problems without complaining about it
Example: Few people at the company realized that their accountant was suffering from terminal cancer due to her stoical nature.

Word: Stoicism
Meaning: an ancient philosophy that teaches patience and self-control
Example: Greeks that practiced Stoicism taught their students to make decisions based on principle; not emotions.

Word: Stoked
Meaning: thrilled and happy
Example: “I was totally stoked by my doctor’s announcement that I hadn’t contracted Tuberculosis like I had once thought;” the patient said.

Word: Stolen
Meaning: to have acquired property without agreement from the owner
Example: When the stolen watch was finally returned to its rightful owner; a monetary reward was given to the person who found it.

Word: Stolid
Meaning: can't be moved to smile or show much sign of life
Example: He was a stolid man who did not even show his emotions at his mother’s funeral.

Word: Stomach
Meaning: a part of the body that digests the food located in the middle section of the body
Example: After eating four chili hotdogs; two ice cream sundaes and three bags of chips for lunch; the boy’s stomach was hurting.

Word: Stomata
Meaning: a small hole on the outer layer of a plant
Example: Plants will release oxygen into the air through their stomata since this is the only place that is open to the air.

Word: Stomp
Meaning: to march harshly usually due to being emotional
Example: Seeing the cockroach scurry across the kitchen floor; the teenage boy decided to stomp on it.

Word: Stone
Meaning: a firm pebble or rock
Example: When the door kept shutting closed; I pushed a heavy stone in front of the door to keep it open.

Word: Stonewall
Meaning: to delay or block something a conversation by refusing to answer questions or respond
Example: The suspect continued to stonewall the investigation; refusing to answer any questions that the detective asked about the crime.

Word: Stony
Meaning: covered with small pieces of rock (stone)
Example: Stony ruins stood in the middle of the field; the pebbled remnants showing the effects of the terrible war.

Word: Stood
Meaning: raised or got up
Example: All of the children in the classroom stood for the pledge of allegiance as part of their daily procedures.

Word: Stool
Meaning: a place to sit that usually is taller than a chair and does not have a back to it
Example: The interior designer placed a stool at the breakfast bar in the newly remodeled kitchen.

Word: Stoop
Meaning: a place to sit that usually is taller than a chair and does not have a back to it
Example: The interior designer placed a stool at the breakfast bar in the newly remodeled kitchen.

Word: Stoop
Meaning: to reach a new low
Example: Tim swore he wouldn’t stoop to his brother’s level and refused to argue even when provoked.

Word: Stop
Meaning: to rest or discontinue an action
Example: “Stop hitting your younger brother;” the father reprimanded his daughter after observing red marks on his arms.

Word: Stoppage
Meaning: an instance of something being halted
Example: The stoppage on the highway was caused by a traffic accident that kept everyone from moving forward and getting to work.

Word: Storage
Meaning: area; room; or location used for stowing items
Example: As soon as the holidays were over; they packed up all the Christmas decorations and put them in storage until next year.

Word: Store
Meaning: a place where items are sold to the public
Example: Cowboys could buy dry goods and necessary items at the general store during the Wild West.

Word: Stork
Meaning: A large wading bird with long legs and a long beak of the family Ciconiidae
Example: Waddling near the ocean; a stork reached down and grabbed a fish swimming close to the shore.

Word: Storm
Meaning: an outbreak of weather in which thunder; lightning and rain usually occur
Example: Since the soccer game was called off due to an oncoming storm; the players decided to head back home.

Word: Story
Meaning: a narrative description of events that include true or made-up characters
Example: Reading a bedtime story before going to sleep is a common ritual in houses with small children.

Word: Story
Meaning: a tale of real or imaginary people and events that are written or told to entertain
Example: Every night before bed; Amber asks her mommy to tell her a story about a magical princess.

Word: Stout
Meaning: thick and strong
Example: The mover’s sturdy and stout frame made him suitable for lifting heavy furniture.

Word: Stoutly
Meaning: in a firm manner
Example: The chemistry teacher stoutly asked the mischievous teenagers to stop talking during his lecture.

Word: Stove
Meaning: a device for cooking or heating that functions by using electricity or burning fuel
Example: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees; and then place the cake in the stove to cook for 25 minutes.

Word: Stow
Meaning: to pack or store away
Example: Since summer is upon us; it is now time to stow away our winter clothes in the attic.

Word: Straddle
Meaning: to be on both sides of something; to sit or stand with one leg on each side
Example: He knew he couldn’t straddle the issue any longer and that he would have to choose sides.

Word: Straggle
Meaning: to stray from the road; course or line of march
Example: He was reprimanded for not staying in line; as he would often straggle through the hallway.

Word: Straggly
Meaning: spreading around in a messy and disorganized manner
Example: Emily’s frizzy hair was knotted and straggly.

Word: Straight
Meaning: moving in one direction; not wavy or bent
Example: Mel uses a flat iron so that her hair will be straight instead if wavy and curly.

Word: Straightforward
Meaning: direct and easy to understand
Example: Please don’t waste my time with nonsense; I need an honest and straightforward response.

Word: Strain
Meaning: to make a strenuous effort
Example: The prison service is already under considerable strain due to the sudden increase in crimes.

Word: Strained
Meaning: refers to something damaged
Example: Since the couple is separated; the relationship is strained and troubled.

Word: Strait
Meaning: is a narrow passage of water that joins two large areas of water
Example: In Venice; Italy; we went on a tour in a gondola down a narrow strait or stretch of water.

Word: Straitlaced
Meaning: very proper in manners and morals
Example: The pastor came from a very straitlaced Christian family.

Word: Strand
Meaning: a single piece of something such as thread; rope; or hair
Example: Since the wind caused her hair to blow in her face; a single strand of hair got caught in her left eye.

Word: Stranded
Meaning: deserted or stuck
Example: On the way to California; the couple’s car broke down and they were stranded on the side of the road.

Word: Strange
Meaning: unusual and odd
Example: It feels strange being in an unfamiliar city all alone; but eventually you’ll adapt to your new environment.

Word: Stranger
Meaning: is an unfamiliar person
Example: When those two began couple’s therapy; it was difficult talking to a stranger about their relationship.

Word: Strap
Meaning: a strip of leather or cloth used to fasten something
Example: The leather strap on my purse is too short to fit over my shoulder; but I can carry it in my hand.

Word: Stratagem
Meaning: a scheme or a clever plot; especially one used to outwit an opponent or achieve a goal
Example: His chess stratagem was so good that he never lost a match.

Word: Strategic
Meaning: related to a specific strategy or approach
Example: There is a strategic and systematic plan of action to address the deadly mosquito epidemic.

Word: Strategically
Meaning: a specific way of planning and decision making
Example: Caleb strategically paced himself on the test in order to have enough time to answer each question.

Word: Strategy
Meaning: a plan of action intended to accomplish a specific goal
Example: His strategy for winning the election included focusing on creating jobs.

Word: Stratification
Meaning: process leading to formation of layers
Example: Taking millions of years; the stratification of the rock was not an instant process.

Word: Stratosphere
Meaning: region of the uppermost atmosphere
Example: The stratosphere is the second layer of the Earth’s atmosphere.

Word: Stratum
Meaning: a layer or a series of rock or earth
Example: Earth Scientists study stratum comprised of different types of rock.

Word: Straw man
Meaning: an proposal that lacks a solid foundation
Example: The marketing team didn’t have all of the details; so they created a straw man draft of what new markets they wanted to conquer.

Word: Straw
Meaning: single dried stalk of grain
Example: The barn was stacked and stocked with bales of straw for the animals to eat.

Word: Stray
Meaning: to move around
Example: Bored in class; Charlie’s eyes began to stray and wander around the room.

Word: Straying
Meaning: the act of stepping off of a perceived path or deviating from a goal
Example: The wayward driver was distracted by her text message and didn’t realize she was straying between the lines until she nearly collided with another car.

Word: Streak
Meaning: a line of substance that is distinct from the whole. Can be dirt; color; or some other source
Example: In an iconic scene in Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone; Ron Weasley has a streak of dirt on his cheek.

Word: Stream
Meaning: flowing liquid
Example: A heavy stream of blood flowed from the deep cut on his leg.

Word: Streamlined
Meaning: having been made more simple and straight forward
Example: They streamlined for their backpacking trip by including basic necessities.

Word: Street
Meaning: a pathway that vehicles travel over and or use as a means to move from one location to another
Example: Children are taught to look both ways for cars before they cross the street.

Word: Strength
Meaning: the state or quality of being strong
Example: Her emotional strength was evident when she was able to perform at the concert after her father suddenly passed away.

Word: Strengthen
Meaning: to make stronger
Example: After breaking her ankle; Angie had to attend therapy to strengthen and repair it.

Word: Strenuous
Meaning: requiring a lot of effort
Example: Writing a novel under a tight deadline is a very strenuous task.

Word: Stress
Meaning: to place emphasis or importance on
Example: The professor used repetition to stress the importance of specific words.

Word: Stressful
Meaning: causing emotional or mental tension or stress
Example: The woman’s stressful job caused her many nights of restless sleep and emotional distress.

Word: Stretch
Meaning: the act of lengthening limbs by reaching or extending
Example: Soccer players stretch extensively before taking to the field.

Word: Stretch
Meaning: to straighten something to its full length
Example: If you stretch your hands up into the sky; you will relieve some of the pressure you have in your body.

Word: Strew
Meaning: to spread or scatter things all over the place
Example: During the toddler’s temper tantrum; she strew several papers all over the floor.

Word: Strewn
Meaning: scattered over an area
Example: The rose petals were strewn all over the aisle for the wedding.

Word: Stricken
Meaning: the act of being struck down with something; whether it be disease; illness; or emotion
Example: During the middle ages; entire families were stricken with the plague.

Word: Strict
Meaning: closely following and enforcing requirements; rules; or obligations
Example: The rules at her new prep school were so strict that students weren’t even allowed to socialize on the weekends.

Word: Stricture
Meaning: a restriction or limit placed on an individual or thing
Example: The military was called in to help enforce the curfew stricture ordered by the governor.

Word: Stride
Meaning: a confident or assured walk full of purpose or arrogance
Example: When the interviewers saw their next candidate stride into the room with confidence they automatically considered him a serious contender.

Word: Strident
Meaning: loud and harsh
Example: The old man’s voice was so strident that I gritted my teeth every time he spoke to me.

Word: Strife
Meaning: struggle or conflict
Example: A tactical team was sent in to end the strife between the two gangs.

Word: Strike
Meaning: to forcibly hit
Example: Should he be provoked; he has no problem with having to strike his attacker in self-defense.

Word: Striking
Meaning: noticeable or prominent
Example: Having a striking face; the young woman could turn men’s heads to stare at her by walking down the street.

Word: Strikingly
Meaning: awe-inducing; conspicuous or impressive
Example: Aphrodite was so strikingly beautiful that men were rumored to fall in love with her at first sight.

Word: Stringent
Meaning: very strict or severe
Example: I was so happy to move out of my parents’ house and escape their stringent rules.

Word: Stripe
Meaning: a single line that is different from the whole in color; texture; appearance
Example: The navy blue purse had a single red stripe down the middle.

Word: Stripped
Meaning: to remove something
Example: The maid stripped the bed of the dirty sheets and replaced them with clean ones.

Word: Strive
Meaning: to struggle or try something very hard
Example: My mother told me to always strive to do my best in school so that I could get into a good college.

Word: Striving
Meaning: putting a massive amount of time and effort into achieving something
Example: The elite swimmer was striving for a spot on the Olympic team and spent over forty hours a week in the pool working on her endurance and speed.

Word: Stroke
Meaning: a physical blow by fist or weapon
Example: The boxer knocked his opponent out with a stroke of his fist to his competitor’s temple.

Word: Stroll
Meaning: an aimless or casual walk
Example: On lazy Sundays; the family likes to take a leisurely stroll in the park.

Word: Stroma
Meaning: tissue that surrounds an organ; cell; or mass that serves as a framework
Example: The fibrous stroma surrounding the tumor made it difficult for the neurosurgeon to operate.

Word: Strong
Meaning: physical power and/or demonstrated ability to endure strenuous tasks
Example: Wrestlers have to be both strong and crafty to defeat their hefty opponents.

Word: Stronghold
Meaning: heavily reinforced place of protection or center for militia
Example: The stronghold was guarded by hundreds of highly trained soldiers and fortified with reinforced steel.

Word: Struck
Meaning: hit or crashed into something
Example: As the truck struck the back of her car; the driver braced herself for the impact of the crash.

Word: Structuralism
Meaning: a scientific branch related to why humans believe they act the way they do
Example: Analyzing the structuralism of the characters in a novel will allow students to think critically about the protagonist and antagonist.

Word: Structure
Meaning: to build; organize; or construct
Example: Structure your closet in such a way that makes every pair of shoes easy to locate.

Word: Struggle
Meaning: to battle or make a great effort
Example: It was a struggle for Sam to free himself from his attacker.

Word: Strum
Meaning: to pluck or play the strings of a musical instrument
Example: We could hear the musicians strum their guitars along the main street in Downtown Nashville.

Word: Strut
Meaning: a proud step or walk; with the head upright
Example: The rooster would strut in the yard when trying to impress the hens.

Word: Stub
Meaning: the part of a receipt; record; or another paper item that is kept for records
Example: Tearing off the top portion of the ticket; the movie worker returned the stub to the customer.

Word: Stubble
Meaning: the start of hair growth or regrowth on a man’s face
Example: Stubble formed on Tom’s chin and cheeks since he forgot to bring his razor on his week-long trip to the mountains.

Word: Stubborn
Meaning: refusing to move or change one's opinion
Example: My toddler is very stubborn when it comes to following directions.

Word: Stuck
Meaning: to be incapable of being changed or repositioned
Example: While walking along Main Street; my foot got stuck when I stepped into a fresh piece of gum on the sidewalk.

Word: Student
Meaning: someone who is enrolled at a school to educate himself or herself
Example: “An 18-year old student from a local high school has been accepted to every Ivy league school in the United States;” the news reporter announced.

Word: Studious
Meaning: focused on learning and studying
Example: The studious girl dreams of being the valedictorian of her class.

Word: Study
Meaning: to review and examine information usually for school
Example: “I can’t go to the movies with you;” Francis told her best friends; “since I have to study for a history test that I have tomorrow.”

Word: Stuff
Meaning: vague objects
Example: Judy put all of the stuff that she didn’t need any more outside for her garage sale tomorrow.

Word: Stultify
Meaning: to cripple or weaken; deprive of strength
Example: Eating pizza right before a workout will definitely work to stultify your efforts.

Word: Stumble
Meaning: a fall or trip; to lose one's balance
Example: She tripped on a toy and began to stumble down the stairs.

Word: Stump
Meaning: the leftover base of a tree after it has been cut down
Example: After Hurricane Matthew swept through the coastal towns; each tree was snapped leaving behind a small stump.

Word: Stun
Meaning: to confuse or bewilder
Example: In the middle of the night the loud sounds from the car alarms stun a lot of people who are sound asleep.

Word: Stunned
Meaning: completely surprised
Example: Pat and Sally were stunned when they heard the news that their parents were killed in a terrible car accident.

Word: Stunning
Meaning: spectacular and gorgeous
Example: With her stunning beauty; the 24-year old student from Minnesota was won the title of Ms. America.

Word: Stunt
Meaning: a brave or clever act or deed
Example: After the acrobat completed her stunt at the Barnum and Bailey Circus; everyone in the crowd applauded loudly.

Word: Stunted
Meaning: to decrease or halt a normal occurrence
Example: Due to taking drugs during the mother’s pregnancy; the result caused the stunted growth in the baby.

Word: Stupa
Meaning: a religious round roofed building for Buddhism
Example: While trekking through China; we found ourselves passing by a Buddhist stupa known for its sacred ceremonies.

Word: Stupefaction
Meaning: the state of being stunned or dazed in a stupor
Example: The citizens seem to be overcome with national stupefaction as more and more people become shocked by what they are seeing take place.

Word: Stupefied 
Meaning: experiencing shock
Example: The high school graduate was stupefied when she walked outside and saw her new car.

Word: Stupefy
Meaning: to astonish to the point that a person's thinking ability is decreased
Example: Seeing the naked woman was enough to stupefy the bus driver and cause him to drive off the road.

Word: Stupendous
Meaning: amazingly large
Example: The store did not expect a stupendous throng of customers to line up around the building.

Word: Stupid
Meaning: being or acting in a foolish or silly way
Example: Sylvia realized her stupid mistake when she accidentally sent out an email revealing a secret to the whole staff instead of her friend.

Word: Stupidity
Meaning: foolishness or silliness
Example: The stupidity of someone drinking and driving is unfortunately revealed through fatal car crashes every year.

Word: Stupor
Meaning: a condition in which it is difficult to think
Example: In his drunken stupor; Mitch was unable to locate his car in the parking lot.

Word: Sturdy
Meaning: durable and tough
Example: Kevin’s successful architectural plans were attributed to his sturdy table; steady hand and a creative brain.

Word: Sturgeon
Meaning: a large; bony fish that lives in freshwater and whose eggs are turned into caviar
Example: The fisherman struggled to angle the enormous lake sturgeon from the water after he caught it.

Word: Stutter
Meaning: a speech impediment causing the person to stammer and quickly repeat sounds before saying the whole word or sentence
Example: As the young speaker walked on stage; she began to stutter the first few words of her speech before she was able to control her nerves.

Word: Stygian
Meaning: dark; gloomy
Example: The stygian cave led to an underground river which frightened the explorers.

Word: Style
Meaning: a way of something happening
Example: David started making good grades on his math tests because his teacher was using activities conducive to his learning style.

Word: Stylish
Meaning: in trend with current fashion styles
Example: The stylish student was selected to model clothing during the school fashion show.

Word: Stymie
Meaning: to stand as an obstacle
Example: My rival did everything she could to stymie my efforts to become homecoming queen.

Word: Suasion
Meaning: referring to coaxing or urging
Example: Using suasion to become a cult member; the cult leader explained how the young girl will become closer to her spiritual being and live in heaven.

Word: Suave 
Meaning: confident and captivating
Example: It was easy for the suave detective to get the female suspect to confess.

Word: Suavity
Meaning: the quality of being sweet or pleasing to the mind
Example: His suavity and charm are what attracted many women.

Word: Sub rosa
Meaning: to be done in a discreet way
Example: The Planter’s Literary Society met in a sub rosa fashion so that only the members knew where to attend their meetings.

Word: Sub-zero
Meaning: registering or recording lower than zero on the Fahrenheit temperature scale
Example: The sub-zero temperatures in Antarctica make it impossible for anyone to live on the freezing continent.

Word: Subaquatic
Meaning: to be completely below water
Example: After living a subaquatic life; the animal would struggle to survive on land since it is used to the ocean.

Word: Subaudition
Meaning: an indirect indication or hint
Example: When my mom asked me when I was going to clean my room; I realized her subaudition of the question was telling me to clean my room now.

Word: Subcommittee
Meaning: a smaller group within a larger committee formed in order to complete a certain task
Example: At the church’s finance committee meeting; the president assigned a subcommittee to purchase a new organ.

Word: Subconscious
Meaning: mental awareness of which a person is unfamiliar
Example: Even though we do not realize it; our subconscious has a way of guiding us through life.

Word: Subcontinent
Meaning: a recognizable area within a continent
Example: Many monsoons and severe weather plagues many countries in the subcontinent of Southeast Asia.

Word: Subcontract
Meaning: to hire a person or company who is not employed with the company to work on a project for the company
Example: Since the carpentry company could not paint the wooden furniture; they decided to subcontract the painting work to a local painter.

Word: Subculture
Meaning: a smaller cultural group within a larger one that usually holds different core beliefs than the larger culture
Example: The Jewish community in New York is a subculture of the city’s primary culture.

Word: Subcutaneous
Meaning: applied or situated under the skin
Example: Botox is a subcutaneous treatment because it injects neurotoxin under the skin.

Word: Subdivide
Meaning: to divide something that has already been divided
Example: If you cut a paper in half and then cut those halves in half; you subdivide it.

Word: Subdivision
Meaning: the action of dividing a greater whole into smaller parts
Example: Because the math problem was so large; Matt used subdivision to break it down into smaller parts he could understand.

Word: Subduction
Meaning: when one of the Earth’s tectonic plates passes beneath the edge of another plate and into the mantle
Example: Subduction can be easily demonstrated by sliding one book underneath another.

Word: Subdued
Meaning: held down; overpowered
Example: According to the lawsuit; the officers subdued the suspect with unnecessary force and broke his arm.

Word: Subheading
Meaning: a title of a part of a written document
Example: Writing in an APA paper requires a subheading under the methods section where the author describes who participated in the study.

Word: Subhuman
Meaning: acting in a rude or inhumane way
Example: After living in the run-down apartment without plumbing; the man decided he could no longer endure the subhuman living conditions.

Word: Subject Matter
Meaning: the focus of a book; piece of art; discussion; etc.
Example: The subject matter of the book is rather boring; but its skilled writer could make any topic interesting.

Word: Subject
Meaning: a topic of discussion or written work
Example: The student wanted to write her research paper on animals; but her teacher asked her to pick another subject.

Word: Subjected
Meaning: to be controlled or forced to do something
Example: After the boss’s tirade; the employee decided to quit her job so she would not subjected to that verbal abuse ever again.

Word: Subjection
Meaning: the condition of someone or thing being controlled or forced
Example: Adolf Hitler’s subjection of the German people to obey all of his strict laws during the 1930s and 1940s instilled fear in the German citizens.

Word: Subjective
Meaning: open to an individual’s interpretation
Example: The judge was dismissed from the case because of the subjective views he held about the defendant.

Word: Subjectivity
Meaning: influenced by personal beliefs/opinions and not by fact
Example: The researchers try not to allow subjectivity to influence their results; so they keep their personal opinions out of the experiments.

Word: Subjugate
Meaning: bring under domination or control; esp. by conquest
Example: When the settlers first landed on the continent; they tried to subjugate the natives and turn them into slaves.

Word: Subjunctive
Meaning: an action verb form that explains a desire or want to do something
Example: Once the student found the subjunctive verb in the sentence; he was able to find the direct object.

Word: Sublimate
Meaning: to change an objectionable expression into one that is acceptable
Example: Rather than start an argument I chose to sublimate my anger by clenching my fists and walking away.

Word: Sublimation
Meaning: when anything solid turns into a gas without first becoming liquid
Example: Sublimation happens when freeze-dried food is cooled in a vacuum and then the water is channeled into it.

Word: Sublime
Meaning: something of such excellence; impressive or awe-inspiring
Example: After the sublime meal; we asked to see the chef so that we could give him our compliments.

Word: Subliminal 
Meaning: working beneath the level of awareness
Example: In the old days; commercials contained subliminal suggestions that encouraged consumers to purchase certain products.

Word: Sublingual
Meaning: pertaining to the bottom of the mouth beneath the tongue
Example: After years of dipping snuff; Uncle Bill’s sublingual area of his mouth and his tongue were afflicted with cancer.

Word: Sublunary
Meaning: associated with the Earth
Example: When the astronauts saw the sublunary image; they realized that they were heading back home.

Word: Submarine
Meaning: a ship that travels and functions completely underwater
Example: One way the United States was able to defeat Germany during World War II was by overtaking a German submarine and stealing their Enigma machine.

Word: Submerge
Meaning: to sink out of sight
Example: To test how long I could go without breathing; I decided to submerge my head into a bucket full of water.

Word: Submersible
Meaning: to be able to function completely underwater
Example: Since the submersible treadmill was located right below the waterline of the family pool; Sarah could run in her pool.

Word: Submission
Meaning: an item brought forth before or to a group of people
Example: After my submission of the monthly reports to my boss; I returned several phone calls.

Word: Submissive
Meaning: yielding; passive
Example: After months of training; our aggressive dog finally became submissive.

Word: Submit
Meaning: to bring forth an item before or to a group of people
Example: Candidates may submit their applications for employment at the Timmonsville Computer Company in order to be considered for any job vacancies.

Word: Submittal
Meaning: the act of someone or something being directed and shown to someone else for a conclusion
Example: When the employee was told to finish his request form; his boss would read his submittal for approval.

Word: Subordinate
Meaning: under the command of those with a greater position or rank
Example: Many women still believe they should be subordinate to their husbands and do everything they are told.

Word: Suborn
Meaning: successfully influence a person to commit a crime or do something wrong
Example: Through her charm and evil ways; a greedy woman might suborn an innocent stranger to kill her husband in order to get her husband’s life insurance money.

Word: Subpoena 
Meaning: a legal document requiring an individual to appear in court
Example: As soon as I received the subpoena; I knew I had to testify during the trial.

Word: Subscribe
Meaning: to pay for an item or amenity
Example: Once I subscribe to the cake of the month club; I will become aware that $200 is worth getting a delicious cake each month.

Word: Subscript
Meaning: a character that is lower than the line of standard text
Example: While scanning over the material in the science textbook; the student was quickly able to point out the name of a chemical compound due to the subscript written in it.

Word: Subscription
Meaning: a payment to acquire or take part in something
Example: For Mother’s Day; I decided to give my mother a magazine subscription for Southern Living since she likes to garden.

Word: Subsequent
Meaning: coming after something in time
Example: Subsequent editions of the book will be based on the early lives of the characters.

Word: Subservient
Meaning: submissive
Example: In the movie; you will play the role of a subservient son who never talks back to his father.

Word: Subset
Meaning: a smaller batch of something that is a part of a bigger batch
Example: Analyzing the subset of Catholic people in Ireland’s population reveals that this religious denomination has escalated over the years.

Word: Subsided
Meaning: to decrease to a less intense level
Example: After I took the medicine; the pain in my leg subsided.

Word: Subsidence
Meaning: the progression of the ground sinking lower
Example: After years of land subsidence; the houses in the back of the neighborhood were now located in a flood zone.

Word: Subsidiary
Meaning: a business owned by a larger company
Example: The business is a subsidiary of a gigantic multinational organization.

Word: Subsidize
Meaning: to pay for part of the cost of something
Example: The mayor used city funds to subsidize his personal projects and was eventually charged with theft.

Word: Subsidy
Meaning: financial assistance or support
Example: The subsidy my ex-husband gives me each month is not enough to pay all of my bills.

Word: Subsist
Meaning: to sustain or live upon
Example: The prisoners of war were forced to subsist upon bread and water.

Word: Subsistence
Meaning: something (food; water; money; etc.) that is required to stay alive
Example: The church was accepting donations of food and clothing for community members in need of subsistence.

Word: Subsoil
Meaning: the dirt that lies right beneath the top layer of dirt
Example: Our gardener dug up the grass and a pile of the dirt in order to expose the subsoil that contained more nutrients.

Word: Substance
Meaning: a material or matter that takes up space
Example: Floyd realized that he must have stepped into a gooey substance on the garage floor before he tracked it through the house.

Word: Substandard
Meaning: on a lower level than the average level
Example: Since the quality of the restaurant’s food was substandard; Patricia certainly didn’t recommend it to anyone.

Word: Substantial
Meaning: referring to something that is greater or larger than normal
Example: After winning the lottery; the family won a substantial amount of money in which they didn’t know how to spend it all.

Word: Substantially
Meaning: extensively or significantly
Example: Having to pay ten dollars for a small Sprite at the movie theater is a substantially expensive price to pay for a drink.

Word: Substantiate
Meaning: to prove the truth of something
Example: To get a good grade on the research project; you must substantiate your report with provable facts.

Word: Substantive
Meaning: associated with issues of key importance; meaningful
Example: As a busy employee; Phil is tired of attending monthly meetings that are not substantive to his work.

Word: Substation
Meaning: a passthrough where electricity strength is changed before it goes to homes/businesses
Example: At the substation; electrical current was converted from high voltage to a much lower voltage.

Word: Substitute
Meaning: something that is an alternative or replacement for something else
Example: While looking in my refrigerator; I realized I would have to substitute whole milk for heavy cream since I didn’t have any cream in the house.

Word: Substitution
Meaning: the act of replacing one thing for another
Example: The substitution of one teacher for another caused quite a bit of chaos in the classroom.

Word: Substrate
Meaning: the top layer of soil or material where a plant or other living thing sustains life
Example: Planting the small saplings in the substrate of the ground allowed these plants to take in nutrients to grow bigger.

Word: Substructure
Meaning: the groundwork and base of a building or house
Example: Termite inspectors frequently will explore the substructure of a house in order to see if there is any termite damage underneath the house.

Word: Subsume
Meaning: to include or absorb something or someone into a larger group
Example: Some think that Taiwan should fully subsume into China; but many of the Taiwanese are dead set on preserving their independence.

Word: Subterfuge
Meaning: trickery or deceit used to manipulate or achieve one’s goals
Example: Pinocchio’s lies and subterfuge caused his nose to grow longer and longer.

Word: Subterranean 
Meaning: beneath the ground or surface
Example: You can access the subterranean rail system by riding the escalator underground.

Word: Subtext
Meaning: a hidden or less obvious meaning in writing
Example: Most fairy tales have a dark subtext that isn’t obvious to children.

Word: Subtitle
Meaning: the second part of the heading or label given to a performance or written document
Example: With the subtitle written on the cover; people could figure out exactly what the book was about.

Word: Subtle
Meaning: hard to notice or see
Example: In the game; people are asked to identify the subtle differences between the similar pictures.

Word: Subtract
Meaning: to deduct or detract from something
Example: “When you subtract two from five;” the math teacher told her students; “you will end up with three.”

Word: Subtraction
Meaning: a removal or deduction
Example: In Ms. Fisher’s first grade math class; she showed the students subtraction by placing 5 apples on her desk and then putting two away.

Word: Subtropical
Meaning: pertaining to the climate area located between the tropics and a milder climate
Example: Gardeners will usually put their subtropical plants in direct sunlight since they need lots of sun.

Word: Suburb
Meaning: the residential constructed areas located around a city
Example: When Pamela became pregnant with her first child; a larger house in the suburb of Seattle seemed ideal for her growing family.

Word: Suburban
Meaning: pertaining to an area located around a city
Example: Life in the big city of New York shocked the suburban housewife when she saw thousands of people walking down the street.

Word: Subversion
Meaning: the act of trying to destroy a government or system
Example: The traitor received a 20 year sentence for subversion after being convicted of trying to overthrow the government.

Word: Subversive
Meaning: intended to destroy the power or influence of a government or an established belief
Example: The group published a subversive magazine that contained nothing but negative articles about the current government.

Word: Subvert 
Meaning: to attempt to undercut or overthrow a person or group’s authority
Example: In the movie; the rebels sought to subvert the tribunal’s power and replace the body with a democratic government.

Word: Subway
Meaning: a power-driven train system located below ground
Example: After buying a ticket; I ran down the stairs to the subway and waited for the vehicle to pull into the station.

Word: Succedaneum
Meaning: a replacement especially pertaining to the medical field
Example: Even though the man ordered roses for his wife; the florist decided the succedaneum of daisies would have to do since there were not any more roses in his shop.

Word: Succeed
Meaning: to become victorious or accomplish a task
Example: If you want to succeed in life; you should have a great job and a proud productive family.

Word: Success
Meaning: victory or accomplishments
Example: Due to her success in high school; the graduate had a full scholarship to the college of her choice.

Word: Successful
Meaning: effective and thriving
Example: When Patricia and Fred were celebrating their 50th wedding anniversary; they said that their successful marriage could be attributed to their love for each other.

Word: Succession
Meaning: the process of taking over the duties and privileges of another person
Example: When William married the former prostitute; he was removed from the line of succession to the throne.

Word: Successive
Meaning: following or to occur right after
Example: After John F. Kennedy’s assassination; the successive president of Lyndon B. Johnson immediately took over the job.

Word: Successor
Meaning: person or thing that immediately follows another
Example: If the board does not appoint a successor after the CEO steps down; the workers will strike.

Word: Succinct
Meaning: expressed in a clear but brief manner
Example: Everyone was happy when the politician made a succinct speech that did not take all evening.

Word: Succor
Meaning: assistance or relief from distress
Example: As soon as the news was broadcast; people from the small community were gathering in homes and churches to organize plans for bringing succor to the widows and children of the firefighters.

Word: Succubus
Meaning: female demon that has sexual intercourse with men in their dreams
Example: Beware on the most haunted night of the year for the succubus lurking in the woods.

Word: Succulent 
Meaning: scrumptious; delicious
Example: The critic referred to the dish as succulent and asked for a second portion.

Word: Succumb
Meaning: to give up or give in
Example: Although Jerry gave up smoking; there is always a chance he might succumb to his old habit

Word: Sudden
Meaning: occurring unexpectedly and without any warning
Example: A sudden snowstorm trapped several of the surprised residents inside their homes.

Word: Suddenly
Meaning: rapidly or without warning
Example: When I stared out the window; I noticed the tornado suddenly approaching our farm with intense force.

Word: Suddenness
Meaning: the act of something happening unexpectedly or rapidly
Example: With the suddenness of the snowstorm; the kids were sent home from school before the hour was over.

Word: Sudorific
Meaning: producing or triggering perspiration
Example: Running in the summer is a sudorific exercise due to the energy exerted as well as the high temperature.

Word: Sue
Meaning: to take legal action against another person or party due to alleged wrongdoing
Example: On television; the court shows usually present the plaintiff who has decided to sue the defendant for an amount of money.

Word: Suede
Meaning: a tough raw hide or buckskin fabric that is soft to the touch
Example: In order to appear as a cowboy; I put on my stiff suede jacket; tall ten-gallon hat and spurred boots.

Word: Suffer
Meaning: to agonize by pain; grief or other emotion or physical feelings
Example: While traveling on the Oregon Trail; many people would suffer from dysentery which caused excessive diarrhea.

Word: Sufferance
Meaning: the ability to tolerate hurt and discomfort
Example: Nurses typically sympathize with their patients due to their sufferance of the ailments that they have.

Word: Suffice
Meaning: be enough or adequate
Example: For this scratch; I am sure a small bandage will suffice as a dressing.

Word: Sufficient
Meaning: enough; plenty of
Example: With careful planning; they had a sufficient amount of food to survive for an entire month.

Word: Suffix
Meaning: certain common endings to words that change the meanings or parts of speech of the words
Example: Adding the suffix “tion” to the word “operate;” changes the word from a verb to a noun.

Word: Suffocate
Meaning: to take the life of someone or something by forcing their air intake to be stopped
Example: Plastic bags are dangerous to small children because placing one over their heads could make them suffocate.

Word: Suffrage
Meaning: the right to participate in making a decision
Example: By allowing employees to leave work early during the elections; the company president is encouraging each employee to use his right of suffrage.

Word: Suffuse
Meaning: to spread out excessively
Example: If you spray too much perfume; it will suffuse throughout the room and cause me to sneeze.

Word: Suffusion
Meaning: the gradual extension or sweep of something completely over something else
Example: During the Middle Ages; the suffusion of the Plague caused over one-third of the population across Europe to die.

Word: Sugar
Meaning: a fine powdered or sandy substance made from a grasslike stalk used to sweeten foods and drinks
Example: Adding processed sugar to the apple tart made the dessert taste very sweet to those who ate it.

Word: Sugarcoat
Meaning: to make something bad sound more appealing than it really is
Example: My mom tried to sugarcoat her upcoming surgery by describing it as “a simple procedure.”

Word: Suggest
Meaning: to recommend or submit an opinion or statement
Example: If you hear a strange sound in your house at night like breaking glass; I would suggest that you call the police immediately.

Word: Suggestion
Meaning: an idea or plan that has been put forth
Example: Joey mentioned a new idea for the business model; and we all appreciated his suggestion.

Word: Sui Generis
Meaning: an original; the only one of its type
Example: When Twitter launched; it was viewed as sui generis because of its unique style of communication.

Word: Suicide
Meaning: to take one’s own life
Example: Not actually contemplating suicide; the depressed teenager mentioned wishing she was dead.

Word: Suit
Meaning: a set of clothing pieces designed to be worn together
Example: Cory’s suit consisted of dressy black slacks; a white shirt; and a matching black jacket.

Word: Suitable
Meaning: appropriate
Example: Dating a twenty year old when you are only fourteen would not be suitable or appropriate.

Word: Suitcase
Meaning: a rectangular case with a handle that is used to carry personal items; especially clothing
Example: Before leaving on a trip to grandmother’s house; the little girl packed a suitcase full of her favorite outfits and toys.

Word: Suite
Meaning: a set of rooms at a hotel or elsewhere
Example: We don’t want just one room; we want a suite with a living room and kitchen.

Word: Suitor
Meaning: a man who wants to marry someone
Example: My grandma told me that only one suitor had her heart; my grandpa.

Word: Sulk
Meaning: to pout or be in a bad mood
Example: You just dropped your cupcake; but there’s no need to pout and sulk because we have more.

Word: Sulky
Meaning: withdrawn and moody
Example: Look at Beth; she has that same sulky resentful expression on her face as usual.

Word: Sullen
Meaning: bad tempered and gloomy
Example: The sullen criminal refused to follow the police officer’s instructions.

Word: Sully
Meaning: to ruin or damage
Example: The accusation of child abuse is sure to sully the teacher’s reputation and cause him his job.

Word: Sultan
Meaning: a Muslim ruler
Example: While the leader was obsessed by terror of assassination; the sultan withdrew himself into seclusion.

Word: Sultry
Meaning: hot and humid weather
Example: The hot sun and humid air of Florida made for one sultry day.

Word: Sum
Meaning: an amount added together
Example: The total sum of money from the tennis tournament equals over three thousand dollars.

Word: Summarily
Meaning: immediately; swiftly
Example: Being late for the third day in a row; he was summarily fired.

Word: Summarize
Meaning: to express briefly
Example: Summarize the journal article by retelling only the most important aspects of it.

Word: Summary
Meaning: a brief rundown of events
Example: Let’s read chapter three together; and you can write a summary about the key components.

Word: Summation
Meaning: a summary
Example: The financial report provided a general summation of the hospital’s expenditures for the past year.

Word: Summative
Meaning: refers to something that is the product of things being added together
Example: The summative essay was given to the students after several different build-up lessons were completed.

Word: Summer
Meaning: the season between spring and fall when the weather is hot
Example: School will be out for the kids during the summer months of June; July; and August.

Word: Summit
Meaning: the top of a mountain
Example: When the climbers planned their trip; they realized it would take three days to reach the summit of the mountain.

Word: Summon
Meaning: request the presence of
Example: I know that they will summon me to appear in court; which is why I plan on fleeing the country.

Word: Sumptuary
Meaning: relating to laws regarding money
Example: The new sumptuary laws pertain to first- hand regulations on controlling expenses.

Word: Sumptuous
Meaning: splendid; of the best quality
Example: My eyes grew large when I saw the sumptuous wedding feast.

Word: Sun
Meaning: the ball of fire in the sky that the Earth goes around that provides heat and light
Example: The sun was shining on the way to the Rocky Mountains; and there were no rain showers that day.

Word: Sunder
Meaning: split apart
Example: The lumberjack will sunder the wood into pieces after he cuts the trees down.

Word: Sundry
Meaning: a group of unrelated things
Example: Because I was unsure of the San Francisco weather; I packed a sundry of clothing items to wear.

Word: Sunk
Meaning: the act of being submerged beneath something; typically water
Example: The ship sunk beneath the waves of the ocean.

Word: Sunlight
Meaning: light that comes from the Sun
Example: You can only see sunlight during the day.

Word: Sunny
Meaning: brightly illuminated by light from the sun
Example: A sunny day will ensure that everything is bright and cheerful.

Word: Sunset
Meaning: the point in the evening in which the sun disappears over the horizon
Example: Sunset is when the Sun is moving to the other side of the planet to begin their day.

Word: Sunshine
Meaning: a metaphor that describes happiness or cheerfulness
Example: My little daughter seems to be a ray of sunshine all the time.

Word: Sunspot
Meaning: a dark spot on the Sun’s surface that appears from time to time
Example: You can see a sunspot on our star because it is dark compared to the rest of it.

Word: Super
Meaning: extraordinary or excellent
Example: You did a super job on your math test to have scored an A+.

Word: Superable
Meaning: capable of overcoming adversity
Example: Suzy is a very superable person; nothing can stop her.

Word: Superabundant
Meaning: excessive quantity or surplus of something
Example: The number of people in a massive city like Hong Kong is superabundant.

Word: Superadd
Meaning: to add to something that has already been added to
Example: When the young man was shot; this injury would superadd to his medical problems since he already had an existing stab wound.

Word: Superannuated
Meaning: out of date and no longer useful
Example: After reading the effective date; I realized my headache medicine was superannuated.

Word: Superb
Meaning: excellent
Example: Because of the superb performance; the cast received a standing ovation.

Word: Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious
Meaning:  incredible; extremely pleasing
Example: Because the dinner at the restaurant was supercalifragilisticexpialidocious; I cannot wait to return for my next meal.

Word: Supercharge
Meaning: to charge with an abundant or excessive amount
Example: The school is looking for a way to supercharge it’s t-shirt sales and make two thousand dollars for the football team.

Word: Supercilious
Meaning: behaving in a way that suggests you think that you are superior to others
Example: Lynda is so supercilious that she refuses to friend anyone outside her race.

Word: Superego
Meaning: the part of your mind that acts as your self-accountable conscience
Example: My superego tells me that what I am doing is probably wrong.

Word: Supererogatory
Meaning: actions that are considered good but are not strictly necessary
Example: A supererogatory act includes extra credit work in class.

Word: Superficial
Meaning: concerned with only what is on the surface
Example: As I read the political article; I realized it was completely superficial and did not even discuss the major issues that are wrong with this country.

Word: Superfluity
Meaning: an unnecessarily large amount of something
Example: There is a superfluity of apples in the store; outnumbering the bananas three to one.

Word: Superfluous
Meaning: unnecessary; more than what is needed
Example: Because I have already answered your question several times; answering it again would be superfluous.

Word: Superhuman
Meaning: possessing qualities beyond that of the average human
Example: The man possessed superhuman strength; being able to lift six hundred pounds.

Word: Superimpose
Meaning: to put one image over another image so both are seen
Example: When the graphic artist makes the ad; he will superimpose the company logo over the product’s image so both objects are visible.

Word: Superintendence
Meaning: the process or function of supervising or directing operations
Example: The dean’s superintendence over the school ended when he accepted another position.

Word: Superintendent
Meaning: a person that manages an organization or activity
Example: The superintendent is in charge of everything we do here.

Word: Superior
Meaning: higher in rank or quality; excellent
Example: Due to his superior scientific skills; MacKenzie could make his way out of any predicament.

Word: Superiority
Meaning: the state of being superior
Example: Since we are equals; do not act as though you have authority or superiority over any of us.

Word: Superlative
Meaning: exceptionally good; excellent
Example: She was a superlative student; getting nearly perfect grades on every assignment.

Word: Supernatural
Meaning: something of the other world; spooky; scary things that are not natural or normal
Example: Although he doubted the existence of supernatural beings; he was intrigued by the idea of ghosts.

Word: Supernova
Meaning: an exploding star
Example: The burst of a star that has reached the end of its life is otherwise known as a supernova.

Word: Supernumerary
Meaning: in excess
Example: Some people have supernumerary body parts like extra toes or fingers.

Word: Superposition
Meaning: one object stacked on another
Example: In geology; superposition refers to layers of rock being stacked with the oldest being on the bottom.

Word: Supersede
Meaning: to replace someone or something
Example: In time; the features of the smartphone may supersede those of the personal computer.

Word: Supersonic
Meaning: a speed that travels faster than sound
Example: These aircraft tolerate a wide range of pilot demands from absurdly low speeds to supersonic flight.

Word: Superstar
Meaning: a famous person who is widely known
Example: The superstar took a second to sign autographs for the crowd of fans waiting for him outside the restaurant.

Word: Superstition
Meaning: believing in imaginary things
Example: He thought that crossing his fingers would bring him good luck; but now he knows it was a superstition.

Word: Superstitious
Meaning: showing faith in magic and chance
Example: The pitcher never washed his lucky game socks because he was superstitious.

Word: Superstructure
Meaning: the part of a building above the foundation
Example: The superstructure on top of the concrete slab was a three-story home with lake views.

Word: Supervene
Meaning: to occur unexpectedly
Example: The train’s arrival will supervene because it had to stop for minor repairs therefore delaying its routine.

Word: Supervise
Meaning: to watch and oversee
Example: Each Sunday school teacher should supervise their class’s craft to ensure that it’s completed in time.

Word: Supervisor
Meaning: a person who supervises other people or activities
Example: Paula is a nursing supervisor at a local hospital; and she manages her responsibilities well.

Word: Supine
Meaning: lying face upward
Example: My brother-in-law is a lazy fellow who will sleep with his head up in a supine position all day long.

Word: Supper
Meaning: a meal eaten in the evening
Example: The children have an evening routine of playing; eating supper; taking a bath; and then going to bed.

Word: Supplant
Meaning: to kick out or replace in a rough manner
Example: If my stepmother thinks she can supplant my real mother; then she has a rude awakening in her future!

Word: Supple
Meaning: flexible; easy to bend
Example: Regular yoga will help you to keep a supple form.

Word: Supplement
Meaning: something that enhances or completes something else when added to it
Example: The vitamin was added as a supplement to her diet to improve her blood circulation.

Word: Supplementary
Meaning: something that is added to something else
Example: This income is supplementary to my regular job; and I enjoy the chance to earn extra money.

Word: Suppletory
Meaning: something additional
Example: Because of his side jobs; he has three suppletory sources of income to his primary occupation.

Word: Suppliant
Meaning: pleading; begging
Example: After watching Tucker fail miserably because he had made bold demands; I decided to take a more suppliant tactic in asking for a raise.

Word: Supplicant
Meaning: one who prays humbly for something
Example: As a modest supplicant; Mary prayed for the less fortunate; the addicted; and those who are suffering.

Word: Supplicate
Meaning: to humbly plead for something
Example: The homeless man was not too prideful to supplicate for change to buy food.

Word: Supplication
Meaning: a plea made to a higher power
Example: The worried father went to the hospital chapel to make a supplication for his sick child.

Word: Supply
Meaning: an amount of something that someone has available to them
Example: Since Emily had an excess supply of eyeshadow and blush; she donated some to her twin sister.

Word: Support
Meaning: to hold up the weight of something
Example: Steel beams are often used to support the crushing weight of massive skyscrapers; though several of them are needed and they must often be designed in a lattice to do so.

Word: Supportive
Meaning: showing kindness and support
Example: Adam was supportive during his wife's weight loss journey by working out with her at the gym.

Word: Suppose
Meaning: to make an assumption based on likelihood but without real evidence
Example: I suppose the soap might be under the kitchen sink since that’s where we usually keep it.

Word: Supposition
Meaning: something that is assumed; a suspicion of sorts
Example: The prosecutor knew it would take more than supposition to convince the jury of the defendant’s guilt.

Word: Suppress
Meaning: to prevent or restrain action or emotion
Example: Jim had to suppress a smile during the serious speech his father was giving so he didn’t irritate him.

Word: Suppressible
Meaning: able to muffle or withhold something
Example: Even though the girl was not upset anymore; her suppressible smile made her father think she was still mad.

Word: Supramundane
Meaning: to be higher than the human world
Example: As the supramundane angels fluttered nearby in a halo of haze; the believers knew that they had witnessed a miracle.

Word: Supremacy
Meaning: having supreme power and influence
Example: The president has been able to assert his ultimate supremacy over the prime minister.

Word: Supreme
Meaning: a level of high quality
Example: DeAnn’s approval of Pam’s boyfriend was of supreme importance to both of them.

Word: Surcease
Meaning: stop; halt
Example: The failing company had to surcease from operations due to lack of funds.

Word: Surcharge
Meaning: to charge an additional amount of money
Example: Airline passengers for all major airlines are facing higher landing fees and fuel surcharges than ever.

Word: Sure
Meaning: certainty
Example: Sure; I can serve our guests their meal at the dinner theatre hosted by the local drama club.

Word: Surely
Meaning: confidently and inevitably
Example: You’re an intelligent woman; surely you realize by now that your husband is not faithful to you.

Word: Surety
Meaning: money or something valuable given as collateral
Example: I gave Gabby my favorite brand name watch as surety that I would repay her for the money I borrowed.

Word: Surf
Meaning: to ride waves on a surfboard
Example: I am excited to visit Malibu; California and take surf lessons to learn how to ride the waves.

Word: Surface
Meaning: an uppermost area of something
Example: Worth the investment; the surface of the marble countertop is smooth and durable.

Word: Surfeit
Meaning: an overabundant supply
Example: We had such a surfeit of food during the holidays that we gave a large portion of it to the family across the street.

Word: Surge
Meaning: a sudden increase
Example: Because of low supply and high demand; there is a sudden surge in the price of natural oil.

Word: Surgeon
Meaning: a medical professional qualified to conduct surgery
Example: Doctor Matthews is a surgeon because he is medically qualified to operate on the human body.

Word: Surgery
Meaning: a medical procedure that requires someone’s body to be cut open
Example: Louise’s father is recovering from an open heart surgery that required implanting stints to open arteries.

Word: Surly
Meaning: ill-tempered and irritable
Example: The surly man was yelling at the waitress because he didn’t get the right order from the restaurant.

Word: Surmise
Meaning: to guess that something is true
Example: Because Helen is so dark; we can only surmise she spends a great deal of time in a tanning bed.

Word: Surmount
Meaning: to conquer a problem or obstacle
Example: Good teachers encourage students to surmount their challenges.

Word: Surname
Meaning: the last name one shares with his or her family
Example: His last name wasn’t very common in the area; and only a few other families shared his surname.

Word: Surpass
Meaning: to exceed or do better
Example: Since my husband is very competitive; I know he will try and surpass my videogame score.

Word: Surplus
Meaning: beyond what is required; extra
Example: Since we do not need our surplus clothing items; we will donate them to charity.

Word: Surprise
Meaning: an unexpected event
Example: As a graduation gift; Melissa will surprise her daughter Mia with concert tickets.

Word: Surprisingly
Meaning: unexpected and unforeseen
Example: Surprisingly; after earning no commission for three months; Mike earned $12;000 in one week.

Word: Surreal
Meaning: appearing as a fantasy or dream
Example: After eating drug-laced brownies; Gerry had a surreal experience in which she believed she was flying through the air like a bird.

Word: Surrender
Meaning: to cease resistance against an opponent
Example: The German Army had to surrender to the Russians when they conquered Berlin in World War Two.

Word: Surrender
Meaning: to give in or yield to another
Example: Because they knew they had lost the battle; the Confederate Army decided to surrender to the Union.

Word: Surreptitious
Meaning: kept secret and marked by quiet and caution
Example: The dog has his surreptitious ways of stealing table scraps behind my back.

Word: Surrogate
Meaning: a substitute (usually of a person; position or role)
Example: Because the couple was unable to conceive; they decided to have a surrogate carry their child.

Word: Surround
Meaning: to be completely around someone or something
Example: The troops had to surround the enemy from all sides to ensure that they didn’t escape.

Word: Surroundings
Meaning: the things and conditions around a person or thing
Example: As she walked to her car in the parking garage; the woman checked her surroundings for danger.

Word: Surveillance
Meaning: close observation of an individual or group; person or persons under suspicion
Example: The FBI surveillance van cruised through the neighborhood where several burglaries had taken place.

Word: Survey
Meaning: to carefully observe someone or something to appraise its worth
Example: The cartographer had to survey the new land to see if it was suitable for a settlement.

Word: Surveyor
Meaning: a person that analyzes a geographical area
Example: The surveyor was tasked with finding suitable land for a new settlement.

Word: Survival
Meaning: the state or act of continuing to live or exist despite difficult or dangerous circumstances
Example: The best way to achieve survival in the wilderness is to come prepared for danger and adversity.

Word: Survive
Meaning: to continue to live in the face of adversity or danger
Example: A cockroach can survive the radiation of a nuclear blast.

Word: Survivor
Meaning: a person that remains alive after an event that killed other people
Example: Corporal Jenkins was a survivor of the ambush that killed some of his unit.

Word: Susceptible
Meaning: vulnerable to an influence
Example: Since the dog lives outside; he is highly susceptible to parasites that strive in the outdoors.

Word: Suspect
Meaning: to believe something without having proof of its existence
Example: I suspect that my keys are in my car; but I haven’t checked so I don’t know.

Word: Suspend
Meaning: to temporarily stop or prevent from occurring
Example: The doctor had to suspend the treatment until he knew more about the injury.

Word: Suspend
Meaning: to hang something from somewhere
Example: It was difficult to suspend the heavy chandelier from the tall ceiling; but a ladder made it possible.

Word: Suspended
Meaning: hung in the air by something
Example: We suspended the box in the air by attaching a rope to it and pulling it over a branch.

Word: Suspense
Meaning: a feeling of anticipation or anxiety over what may happen
Example: Movies use cliffhangers to make sure their audience feels suspense over what is going to happen next.

Word: Suspension
Meaning: the act of forcing someone or something to remain in the same state
Example: The balloon was held in suspension at the top of the room because there was nowhere else for it to go.

Word: Suspicion
Meaning: a feeling that something that may be true or possible
Example: I have a suspicion that school will be cancelled if it snows tomorrow.

Word: Suspicious
Meaning: having a cautious distrust of someone or something
Example: The cop was suspicious of the man in the hood and the mask walking into the bank.

Word: Sustain
Meaning: to keep up or support
Example: In order to sustain food supplies throughout the harsh winter; the settlers had to reduce the size of food portions.

Word: Sustainability
Meaning: the ability to be maintained at a specific level or state
Example: Wind turbines have a high level of sustainability because wind is an endless resource.

Word: Sustenance
Meaning: that which gives nourishment or support
Example: As humans; we get our sustenance from the food we eat.

Word: Susurrant
Meaning: a soft or quiet sound
Example: The tiny mouse made a susurrant noise as it scampered across the floor.

Word: Susurration
Meaning: a whispering sound
Example: The audio recording file was ruined because of the susurration of the producer’s hushed voice in the background.

Word: Suture
Meaning: to stitch up an open wound
Example: We had to suture the large gash in my arm.

Word: Svelte
Meaning: slenderly graceful
Example: The svelte model made her way across the runway with a graceful flare.

Word: Svengali
Meaning: a svengali is a person who exercises a controlling influence on others
Example: The head of the company was a svengali; he controlled all of his employees.

Word: Swaddle
Meaning: to wrap something up tightly
Example: Nurses swaddle the newborn babies tightly in blankets to calm them down.

Word: Swagger
Meaning: a confident and usually arrogant attitude
Example: Someone who is full of themselves walks around with swagger.

Word: Swaggering
Meaning: acting with arrogant confidence in oneself
Example: The man was swaggering his way through the crowd; irritating everyone.

Word: Swallow
Meaning: to allow something to pass down the throat
Example: You must swallow your food to consume it.

Word: Swamp
Meaning: to overwhelm with something
Example: I wish the teacher wouldn’t swamp us with so much homework.

Word: Swank
Meaning: showy and posh
Example: She was showing off her new diamond engagement ring by flaunting it with arrogant swank.

Word: Swanky
Meaning: something that is stylishly expensive
Example: This car is really swanky; but even though it is pretty stylish I cannot afford it because of how luxurious it is.

Word: Swap
Meaning: to exchange one thing for another
Example: You swap money for products in a store.

Word: Swarm
Meaning: a large group of flying insects
Example: You should run if you encounter a swarm of mosquitos.

Word: Swarthy
Meaning: having a dark skin color or complexion
Example: After the man had been stranded on the deserted island for nearly a year; his skin had become quite swarthy as a result of the sun’s heat.

Word: Swath
Meaning: a wide area of something
Example: A forest is just one big swath of trees.

Word: Swathe
Meaning: a bandage; a band
Example: Wrapping the swathe around the wound; the good samaritan hoped that the bandage would hold until helped arrived.

Word: Sway
Meaning: control or dominion
Example: Africa was under Britain’s sway for several decades during colonial times.

Word: Swear
Meaning: to make a solemn promise to do something or confirming that something is true
Example: I swear that I will clean my room tomorrow.

Word: Sweat
Meaning: to excrete drops of a salty liquid from the skin; especially when hot or when working strenuously
Example: After working for hours in the noon-day sun; the farmer began to sweat huge puddles from his armpits.

Word: Sweatshop
Meaning: a factory in which manual laborers work for long hours in poor conditions for very low wages
Example: The workers in the sweatshop were paid less than minimum wage for their hard work.

Word: Sweep
Meaning: to clean an area by brushing away litter and dust
Example: I have to sweep the front porch because it is so dusty.

Word: Sweeping
Meaning: something that has a wide area of effect or range
Example: The missile blanketed the entire area in a sweeping blast of flame.

Word: Sweet Tooth
Meaning: used to refer to a great love for sweet food
Example: Someone with a sweet tooth tends to have an insatiable desire for sugar; honey; and all other manner of sweet things.

Word: Sweet
Meaning: generally pleasing or nice
Example: The little girl was very sweet to me; asking if I wanted one of her cookies.

Word: Sweeten
Meaning: to make something sweeter in taste
Example: The tea didn’t taste very good; so I used some sugar to sweeten it.

Word: Swell
Meaning: to become larger in size
Example: The size of the crowd began to swell as more people began to show up.

Word: Swelter
Meaning: to suffer terribly from intense heat
Example: The beachgoers began to swelter in the afternoon sun.

Word: Swept
Meaning: to have been brushed or carried away
Example: The dirt on the floor was swept away by my broom.

Word: Swerve
Meaning: to change direction very suddenly
Example: To avoid hitting the squirrel on the road; the car had to swerve to the left.

Word: Swift
Meaning: fast or rapid
Example: The roadrunner is a swift animal capable of running very fast.

Word: Swiftly
Meaning: quickly or promptly
Example: The car moved swiftly down the road at eighty miles an hour.

Word: Swiftness
Meaning: the quality or characteristic of speed
Example: A Cheetah has great swiftness for hunting its prey.

Word: Swill
Meaning: a large mouthful of drink
Example: The thirsty man filled his entire mouth with a swill of water and guzzled it down as quickly as he could.

Word: Swim
Meaning: to propel one’s body through water
Example: You use your arms and legs to swim in the pool.

Word: Swimmingly
Meaning: in a manner that is smooth and satisfying
Example: The track meet went swimmingly; as we won a gold medal.

Word: Swindle
Meaning: to deceive someone in order to take wealth from them
Example: The con man makes his money with scams that swindle people out of their money.

Word: Swindler
Meaning: a person who swindles; cheats or defrauds
Example: Considered a swindler for conning people out of their money; the man walked around town in shame.

Word: Swing
Meaning: to move by grasping a support from below and using it to jump
Example: You can use a monkey bar on the playground to swing around if you want to.

Word: Swirl
Meaning: to move about in a spiral pattern
Example: A tornado moves across the Earth in a swirl that is centered on the eye of the storm.

Word: Swish
Meaning: a hissing or rustling sound
Example: I could hear the swish of a paper bag as the wind blew it past me.

Word: Switch
Meaning: to change the direction or position of
Example: I had to switch the vase on the table out for a prettier one.

Word: Swivel
Meaning: to turn around on a point or axis
Example: Your head can swivel around on your neck.

Word: Swollen
Meaning: enlarged; puffed up
Example: Putting ice on her swollen ankle; the woman hoped the pack would help the swelling go down.

Word: Swoon
Meaning: to faint or lose consciousness from extreme emotion
Example: Aaron would not consider going to medical school; for fear that he would swoon at the sight of blood.

Word: Swoop
Meaning: to rapidly dive downwards in the air
Example: The falcon likes to swoop down on its prey from above to catch them off guard.

Word: Sword
Meaning: a weapon with a long metal blade protruding from a hilt and a handguard
Example: Knights in medieval times often carried a sword as both a sign of prestige and a weapon.

Word: Sybarite
Meaning: one who is self-indulgent and addicted to luxury
Example: The sybarite looked forward to their day at the spa.

Word: Sybaritic
Meaning: indulgent; luxurious
Example: The sybaritic prince spared no expense; always splurging on luxurious things like camels and jewels.

Word: Sycophant
Meaning: a person who tries to get what they want by excessively praising or complimenting someone in order to make them feel attractive or important
Example: Because she always kisses up to the teacher; Janice is considered the sycophant in first period.

Word: Sycophantic
Meaning: behaving in a flattering way that is insincere and meant just to gain advantage
Example: The sycophantic reporter tried flattering the speaker just so he could get the first dibs on the interview.

Word: Syllable
Meaning: a unit of pronunciation with one vowel sound forming a part of a word or the whole word
Example: If you don’t know how to say a word properly; try to say it syllable by syllable.

Word: Syllabus
Meaning: an outline of topics and important dates in an educational course
Example: The professor handed out a syllabus to the class so he wouldn’t have to explain all of the lessons for the year to them.

Word: Syllogism
Meaning: a line of reasoning in which a conclusion is drawn from two related premises
Example: One example of incorrect syllogism is the notion that all animals have four legs because dogs are animals and all dogs have four legs.

Word: Sylvan
Meaning: associated with a large number of trees or woods
Example: We enjoy visiting the park because it is filled with trees and is the most sylvan area in our crowded city.

Word: Symbiosis
Meaning: relationship of mutual benefit
Example:  The trade that peacefully occurs between the two warring tribes is viewed as an example of symbiosis.

Word: Symbiotic
Meaning: having a relationship where two organisms live in close association and benefit from one another
Example: A relationship where both people benefit from each other is a symbiotic one.

Word: Symbol
Meaning: a mark; character; or other notion used to represent something else
Example: On the periodic table; the letters Fe serve as a symbol for the element Iron.

Word: Symbolic
Meaning: an object whose meaning is often deeper or different than it appears
Example: The life cycle of the mythical phoenix is symbolic of rebirth and reincarnation.

Word: Symbolism
Meaning: the use of symbols to represent ideas
Example: Black objects are used as symbolism in many movies to represent evil or death.

Word: Symbolize
Meaning: an object used to represent a greater or hidden meaning
Example: Often in literature; colors are used to symbolize emotions.

Word: Symmetry
Meaning: balanced amounts of features to the main body or shape
Example: The perfect symmetry of the body parts increased the sculpture's realistic appearance.

Word: Sympathetic
Meaning: showing care and compassion toward others
Example: Teresa was sympathetic and kind to everyone she met along her journey.

Word: Sympathize
Meaning: to share in feeling with another person; usually in a positive light
Example: It’s difficult to sympathize with a negative people who will do nothing to help themselves.

Word: Sympathy
Meaning: shared feeling or kinship in feeling after an upsetting or particularly emotional event
Example: After her grandmother died; Abigail’s friends expressed their deepest sympathy for her loss in the form of flowers; cards; and comfort food.

Word: Symptom
Meaning: a sign of a virus; sickness or ailment
Example: Since Sally only had one symptom of coughing; her mother decided she probably was just under the weather and really not very sick.

Word: Symptom
Meaning: a physical or mental sign that disease or illness exists in the body
Example: Because it is a symptom of diabetes; the doctor is taking his patient’s high blood sugar very seriously.

Word: Symptomatic
Meaning: showing symptoms
Example: Although he managed a C; his slipping grades were symptomatic of a much bigger problem.

Word: Symptomatology
Meaning: the combined symptoms of a particular disease
Example: It is very easy to identify a cold by its symptomatology; which includes coughing and a sore throat.

Word: Synagogue
Meaning: a place where Jews meet for worship
Example: Not wanting to be late for prayer; the family rushed into the crowded synagogue.

Word: Synchronize
Meaning: to cause two or more events to happen at exactly the same time; at the same rate; or in a time-coordinated way
Example: The bungee jumpers decided to synchronize their descent; so that they would fall at the same time.

Word: Synchronous
Meaning: events occurring at the same time or pace
Example: The cyclists' wheels were in such perfect synchronous motion with each other that they crossed the finish line at the same time.

Word: Syncopate
Meaning: stressing beats that forms a contrast to the overall sound
Example: The horrible beatboxer hummed against his wrist to syncopate a bass drum; but failed to find a natural rhythm.

Word: Syncope
Meaning: loss of consciousness when blood flow is unable to reach the brain to faint
Example: The swimmer held her breath for too long and experienced syncope.

Word: Syndetic
Meaning: related to or using conjunctions
Example: Because we like to get our point across as quickly as possible; we often use syndetic words like ‘can’t’ to speak faster.

Word: Syndicate
Meaning: a group that comes together to buy; trade; invest; or negotiate; usually with large amounts of capital or goods on the line
Example: Members of the sports syndicate crafted an elaborate system to keep track of the millions of dollars placed in bets on major NFL games.

Word: Syndrome
Meaning: group of actions or behaviors that are typical to a particular illness or disease
Example: After being held captive for several months; the prisoner started to exhibit symptoms of Stockholm syndrome like developing positive emotions towards his captor and paranoia that rescuers are the enemy.

Word: Synecdoche
Meaning: a figure of speech in which a part is used for the whole or the whole for a part; the special for the general or the general for the special; as in ten sail for ten ships or a Croesus for a rich man
Example: A synecdoche is often used in classical literature as a form of symbolism that references a group by using a single noun.

Word: Synergism
Meaning: elements that when combined make them more potent or increase effectiveness
Example: Doctors employ the concept of synergism when prescribing new medications that they believe would be more effective when used in tandem.

Word: Synergistic
Meaning: helpful to others on the grounds that helping them will also help oneself; particularly with teammates
Example: I prefer to play a synergistic role in the teams I play on; offering assistance to my teammates but not necessarily taking the lead.

Word: Synergy
Meaning: The combining of different groups; processes; objects; or people to increase success.
Example: In therapy; I am working on organization so all aspects of my life will work in synergy together.

Word: Synesthesia
Meaning: gaining an additional sense during the act of another sense
Example: Ben had a particular form of synesthesia where whenever he heard a bell; he smelled strawberries.

Word: Synod
Meaning: a council
Example: The synod of scholars met to discuss important developments in academia.

Word: Synonym
Meaning: a word that means the same thing as a different word in the same language
Example: A word is a synonym for another word if it has the same meaning as that other word; or at least a very similar one.

Word: Synonymous 
Meaning: being alike in meaning
Example: In the old days; being a woman was synonymous with being a housewife because women were not expected to work outside of the home.

Word: Synopsis 
Meaning: a short summary of a longer work
Example: My teacher said my five-page digest of the book was entirely too long to be a synopsis.

Word: Syntax 
Meaning: the order in which phrases; words; or coding symbols and terms are placed to produce high quality sentences or commands
Example: Because I do not like the way my sentences read; I am going to ask my teacher to tutor me on syntax.

Word: Synthesis
Meaning: the creation of an object or entity by mixing simpler materials or substances
Example: Proteins are essential to the synthesis of muscles and body tissue.

Word: Synthetic
Meaning: not pure; counterfeit
Example: April bought a pair of synthetic leather pants that looked nothing like real leather.

Word: Syringe
Meaning: a device used to suck up or inject liquid
Example: A turkey baster is a form of syringe that families use on Thanksgiving to suck up the juice from the turkey and make homemade gravy.

Word: System
Meaning: a set of different small parts that work together to create a larger complex whole
Example: A country’s transportation system is made up of many small parts; including roads; ports; railways; and airports.

Word: Systematic
Meaning: carried out using a planned; ordered procedure
Example: Wilma teaches algebra in a systematic and thorough way.

Word: Systemic
Meaning: relating to parts that combine forming an entity affecting an entire group or entity
Example: Systemic violence in war-torn countries not only affects the region being targeted; but all of the outlying regions as well.

Word: Syzygy
Meaning: when celestial objects align
Example: Religious fanatics believe that the world will end when syzygy of the sun; moon; and Earth occurs in combination with a solar eclipse.

Word: Table
Meaning: a piece of furniture with a flat top and four legs that are used for eating; writing; or working
Example: The child placed his plate on the top of the table and sat down in a chair to eat his meal.

Word: Tableau
Meaning: a dramatic image; sometimes a reenactment of a historical scene
Example: The tableau of the troops crossing the river is one of the most famous paintings in the world.

Word: Taboo
Meaning: considered inappropriate because of societal beliefs or emotional dislikes
Example: In the old days; even the idea of a homosexual relationship was viewed as a taboo arrangement.

Word: Tachycardia
Meaning: a term used to describe abnormally fast heart rates
Example: The doctor told him he had Tachycardia because his heart was beating much faster than most do; and he would need to be careful about getting too excited.

Word: Tacit
Meaning: implied but not directly stated
Example: Although no words were spoken; our nods represented our tacit agreement to a cease fire.

Word: Taciturn
Meaning: reserved or uncommunicative in speech; saying little
Example: My shy brother is taciturn and rarely speaks in public.

Word: Tack
Meaning: a small; sharp nail that is used to pin things up
Example: Using a tack; the office worker was able to pin the memo to the message board hanging beside her desk.

Word: Tackle
Meaning: to determinedly attempt to handle a problem or obstacle
Example: My mother is the kind of person to tackle any problem with everything she has; regardless of how difficult or troublesome the problem is.

Word: Tact
Meaning: the ability to say or do things in such a way that doesn’t upset or offend anyone
Example: Because he lacks discretion and tact; most of the things my brother says comes off as offensive.

Word: Tactful
Meaning: concerned about distressing other individuals
Example: The doctor was tactful as he told the woman about her incurable illness.

Word: Tactic
Meaning: action to achieve some end
Example: In order to achieve the win; the coach showed his team the best tactic to perform.

Word: Tactical
Meaning: employing a series of skills or maneuvers to gain advantage over an enemy
Example: Soldiers spend months on tactical training where they learn the best skills and maneuvers to gain an advantage over the enemy in battle.

Word: Tactile
Meaning: in regards to the sense of touch
Example: The child’s tactile response was to move her hand away from the hot stove.

Word: Tactless
Meaning: without tact; not sensitive
Example: My tactless sister made a joke about running over a dog even though she knew my son’s pet had recently died.

Word: Taiga
Meaning: large region of North America; Eurasia; and parts of Russia with subarctic climate and expansive forests
Example: The great Russian taiga is known for its abundance of snow and hulking pine trees.

Word: Tail
Meaning: a typically flexible appendage that extends from hindmost part of an animal
Example: The skunk blended in so well with the pitch black night that the campers would have stepped on it if not for the bright; white stripe on its tail.

Word: Tailor
Meaning: an individual who is employed to make clothing alterations
Example: The tailor knelt by the bride’s feet and hemmed her dress to the perfect length.

Word: Tailpiece
Meaning: a part added to the end of something such as a piece of writing or a musical instrument
Example: A tailpiece was added to the mandolin as a way to anchor the string to the end of the instrument.

Word: Tailspin
Meaning: taking a decline or becoming uncontrollable
Example: Once someone got a fever hundreds of years ago; it could take a tailspin to death due to lack of medicine.

Word: Taint
Meaning: to contaminate or pollute something
Example: The spilled chemicals worked to taint the experiment; forcing the students to start over.

Word: Take for Granted
Meaning: to believe that a person or thing is permanently accessible to someone who acts unappreciative
Example: Occasionally; Tiffany will take for granted Sally because Tiffany asks favors from Sally without returning the favor.

Word: Take up
Meaning: to become interested in something
Example: Denise wanted to take up playing the piano; but she couldn’t find anyone to teach her how to play.

Word: Take
Meaning: to carry something or bring it with you
Example: The clerk used a huge buggy to take all of the boxes from the front of the store to the pack.

Word: Takeaway
Meaning: a key point or idea that is remembered
Example: The takeaway from the entire staff meeting is that you shouldn’t post things on social media that might make the company look bad.

Word: Taken aback
Meaning: surprised or shocked
Example: The customer was taken aback by the high price of the spa services.

Word: Talcum
Meaning: a mineral-rich substance often in the form of a powder that has many everyday uses
Example: The mineral-rich talcum powder is a soothing mosturizer for those who suffer from skin conditions like eczema.

Word: Tale
Meaning: a story that typically describes an important or notable incident
Example: Washington Irving’s The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is a tale of witchcraft; romance; and a headless horseman on a quest for revenge.

Word: Tale
Meaning: a story (usually fictional) told orally or written
Example: Grandpa is famous for telling his tale of wrestling a lion in the Savannah desert.

Word: Talent
Meaning: natural mastery of a specific skill
Example: She had a talent for writing that could put even Shakespeare to shame.

Word: Talented
Meaning: having above average or a surprising skill at an activity
Example: Even though Vincent van Gogh was an extremely talented artist; he only sold one painting during his lifetime.

Word: Talisman
Meaning: a charm worn or kept to bring good fortune and ward off evil; lucky charm
Example: Throughout my grandmother’s ninety-five years of life; she rarely went a day without her favorite talisman around her neck.

Word: Talk
Meaning: to speak words out loud
Example: Hillary went to talk to her husband Bill about why she hates polka dot dresses.

Word: Talk
Meaning: to say words out loud
Example: The baby is just learning to talk and can only say a few words.

Word: Talkative
Meaning: someone who likes to speak a great deal
Example: Jessica’s best friend was extremely talkative and rarely paused to catch her breath between sentences.

Word: Talking head
Meaning: someone directly talking on television and whose whole body isn’t shown; but only their head and shoulders
Example: While watching the news; Marty got tired of watching the same boring talking head giving his opinion and changed the channel.

Word: Tallow
Meaning: hard fat of animals often used to craft candles; soap; and other household materials
Example: Before electricity; people would collect bits of congealed fat called tallow and light them on fire as makeshift candles.

Word: Tally
Meaning: a count that usually represents a score; money; number of wins; etc
Example: The prisoner kept a running tally of his incarceration by marking his cell wall with a white line for each day he spent behind bars.

Word: Talmud
Meaning: a book that is sometimes used in correlation with the Torah that consists of accounts of rabbis through a number of centuries and detailed descriptions of commandments that lay the foundation of Jewish faith
Example: Rabbi’s often refer to the Talmud to reinforce their faith and become well versed in religious laws.

Word: Talon
Meaning: sharp; hooked claw
Example: The eagle’s talon held a helpless mouse in its grip.

Word: Tame
Meaning: domesticated; gentle; behavior exhibited after loss of savage ways
Example: After several weeks of training; the poorly behaved and hyperactive puppy was surprisingly tame.

Word: Tamper
Meaning: to interfere with something with the intent to damage it or make unauthorized changes to it
Example: The saboteur had a special mission to tamper with the enemy’s vehicles before their morning deployment; so they wouldn’t be operable.

Word: Tandem
Meaning: alongside; in front of; following one after another; in a line
Example: For their anniversary; the couple decided to go tandem skydiving because what could be more romantic than dropping thousands of feet from a plane wrapped in each other’s arms?

Word: Tangent
Meaning: a line of thought that is off topic
Example: When my uncle is drunk; he will talk about one subject for a moment and then go off on a tangent about a completely different topic.

Word: Tangential
Meaning: not directly related to something
Example: I hardly ever learn anything in my history class because my teacher always rambles off on a tangential topic that has nothing to do with history.

Word: Tangible
Meaning: capable of being touched
Example: The tension in the air was so thick it was almost tangible.

Word: Tangle
Meaning: to become mixed together or intertwined
Example: Tara’s mother yelled as Tara was getting out of the shower; “If you don’t comb your wet hair; it may tangle.”

Word: Tanker
Meaning: a vehicle used to transport gas or liquids in bulk
Example: The gas tanker held hundreds of gallons of fuel that supplied a substantial portion of South Florida.

Word: Tannery
Meaning: a place that makes leather from animal skins
Example: During colonial times; many hunters would sell their captures to a tannery so that the tanner could take them and turn them into coats and outerwear.

Word: Tantalize
Meaning: to tease someone with a promise and then not deliver upon it
Example: In an attempt to tantalize me; my personal trainer offered a piece of cake as an incentive for me to finish my three miles on the treadmill.

Word: Tantalizing
Meaning: displaying something that arouses desire or interest
Example: Since I am on a diet; I must ignore the tantalizing smells coming from the bakery.

Word: Tantamount
Meaning: equal to something
Example: Mooching off your mother at age 35 is tantamount to being a lazy bum.

Word: Tantivy
Meaning: at top speed
Example: As she sped tantivy through the streets; the driver hoped that he would be able to make his meeting on time.

Word: Tantrum
Meaning: a fit or outburst of extreme emotion that is often deemed childish
Example: The toddler threw a temper tantrum when his mother took away his favorite toy.

Word: Taoism
Meaning: chinese philosophy written by Lao Tzu focused on humility and piety
Example: Those that follow Taoism rarely brag about their achievements; instead choosing to simply accept praise with modesty.

Word: Tap
Meaning: to exploit or draw from a source
Example: The miners were looking to tap into a gold reserve in the mine and extract it all for personal gain.

Word: Taper off
Meaning: to become gradually weaker or smaller
Example: As Angie walked away from her father; his voice began to taper off in the night.

Word: Taper
Meaning: to make thinner or narrower at one end or to diminish gradually
Example: The more I sketched my drawing; the more my pencil began to taper.

Word: Tapestry
Meaning: used in reference to complex or complicated combinations of things
Example: America is a tapestry of races and cultures from all over the world; combining all of them into one whole.

Word: Taproot
Meaning: the main root system of a plant that grows down vertically
Example: The dandelion has a single; thick taproot that helps it draw in lots of nutrients.

Word: Tar
Meaning: a thick and flammable liquid distilled from wood and coal
Example: Tar is a black gooey substance used in paving roads; which is why most roads are black themselves.

Word: Tarantism
Meaning: a psychological illness that gives people an overwhelming impulse to dance; once believed to have been caused by the bite of a Tarantula
Example: Tarantism gave many people the hysterical urge to dance in 15th century Italy; something that confused those that were not afflicted by it.

Word: Tarantula
Meaning: a big furry spider that does sting but is usually not dangerous
Example: As the tarantula crawled across the floor; its eight hairy legs and giant body caused people to scream but were too scared to step on it.

Word: Tardiness
Meaning: the quality of being late
Example: Because most schools have a rule about students arriving on time; teachers do not tolerate tardiness.

Word: Tardy
Meaning: late to a specific event or delayed beyond the expected time
Example: Students who do not arrive to class on time are tardy; and they often receive some sort of penalty for it.

Word: Tare
Meaning: another name for vetch; a common name for a flowering plant of the legume family
Example: I accidentally stepped on a tare when I was walking through the forest; but thankfully the flowering plant didn’t have any thorns on it.

Word: Target
Meaning: something selected as the aim of an attack
Example: An Eagle will often choose small fish and rodents as the target of their hunt because they are carnivores.

Word: Tariff
Meaning: a tax or duty on imports or exports
Example: The president has proposed a 25% tariff on all imported automobiles; angering foreign car makers with his tax.

Word: Tarnish
Meaning: a dullness of color or luster
Example: The once shiny candlesticks now only had a tarnish about them; not being as pretty as they once were.

Word: Tarpaulin
Meaning: a heavy duty waterproof cloth
Example: The sails of a boat are usually tarpaulin in nature; so they can withstand the rains and waves of the ocean without getting damaged.

Word: Tarry
Meaning: to take your time or delay in doing something
Example: He decided to tarry during his trip to Georgia because he really didn’t want to go; but he was only able to stall for a short while.

Word: Tarry
Meaning: covered in tar or a tar like substance
Example: The tires of the vehicle were tarry from all the sticky mud it drove through; making it difficult to wash off even with a hose.

Word: Tart
Meaning: acid or sharp in taste
Example: The sour candy I eat is very tart and I love it; but my mom that hates sour food does not.

Word: Task
Meaning: work to be done or completed
Example: My task is to organize all of these papers before noon; but after that I can take a short break.

Word: Taste
Meaning: a person’s liking for a particular thing
Example: Orange walls aren’t really my personal taste; as I honestly prefer darker colors like gray or blue.

Word: Tatterdemalion
Meaning: someone dressed in ragged or torn clothing
Example: With the dirty and torn clothes he was wearing; the homeless man was a tatterdemalion compared to his nicer dressed counterparts.

Word: Tattered
Meaning: ragged and torn; in bad condition
Example: Tattered from the strong wind; there was little left of the boat’s sail.

Word: Tatters
Meaning: irregularly torn pieces of material
Example: The cloth was cut into tatters with a knife; leaving it in multiple pieces of different sizes.

Word: Taught
Meaning: instructed or trained someone on a subject or how to do something
Example: My mother taught me how to cook and clean the kitchen at an early age.

Word: Taunt
Meaning: using insults to try and trigger a response
Example: As the visiting team walked on the court; the hometown fans began to taunt the players.

Word: Taunting
Meaning: insulting or ridiculing in a way that makes others angry
Example: The playground bully continued taunting the shy boy and insulting him with name-calling.

Word: Taut
Meaning: stressed to the point of being nervous
Example: As I waited for the results of my lab tests; I was taut with anxiety.

Word: Tautology
Meaning: speech or text in which something is restated unnecessarily
Example: The politician’s advertisement was simply tautology he restated several times within a thirty second period.

Word: Tawdry
Meaning: cheap and poor in appearance or quality
Example: Everyone is always expecting a politician to have a tawdry affair.

Word: Tawny
Meaning: an orange-brown or yellowish-brown color
Example: Dirty water is often a very unpleasant tawny color that is reminiscent of a muddy orange.

Word: Tax
Meaning: to strain or burden someone or something
Example: That much homework will really tax all of my strength; but I have to do it all even if I’ll be tired afterwards.

Word: Taxation
Meaning: the process of levying taxes
Example: The Revolutionary War was waged for many reasons; but one of the causes that ignited the conflict included unfair taxation in which Americans had to pay money to the Crown without representation.

Word: Taxidermist
Meaning: a person who stuffs and mounts animal skins so that they have a life-like appearance
Example: The skilled taxidermist was able to stuff the giant bear; making him appear life-like again.

Word: Taxidermy
Meaning: the art of preparing and stuffing the skins of dead animals to appear lifelike
Example: The mounted deer heads you see in some homes are the results of taxidermy; and they used to belong to real animals.

Word: Taxing
Meaning: physically or mentally challenging/demanding
Example: Working all day and raising a family can be a taxing task on any single parent.

Word: Taxing
Meaning: requiring significant physical or mental effort
Example: For some people; high level mathematics is simple; but for others even algebra can be taxing and mentally exhausting.

Word: Taxon
Meaning: a group or rank in biology such as a species or family
Example: Giraffes are of a small biological taxon that only includes four distinct species.

Word: Taxonomy
Meaning: the methodology used to classify things or organisms
Example: In biology; the term taxonomy refers to the classification of organisms into groups based on their attributes.

Word: Tea
Meaning: a drink made by infusing the crushed leaves of a tea plant with boiling water
Example: Many people in the south U.S. add sugar to their tea to make sweet tea; but it’s not a common practice in Asia.

Word: Teach
Meaning: the act of passing on knowledge to another
Example: It’s Mr. Kim’s job to teach the students the complicated aspects of math; but most of the students have a hard time understanding it all.

Word: Teacher
Meaning: a person that instructs others
Example: The science teacher imparted his knowledge of scallops onto his students; a subject that he knew a lot more about than them.

Word: Team
Meaning: a group of people that work together to achieve a common goal
Example: A group of Navy Seals is a special team in the U.S. military; and they work together to complete special missions.

Word: Teammate
Meaning: an ally on a team or in a group
Example: Every football player is a teammate to the other players on their team; and they work together towards a common goal.

Word: Teamwork
Meaning: a group of people who work together towards a mutual goal
Example: Group sports rely on teamwork to win the game.

Word: Tear
Meaning: to rip something apart with brute force
Example: I tear apart my test in frustration because I got a low grade on it; but unfortunately it doesn’t change anything.

Word: Tearful
Meaning: the act of being flooded by emotion and its physical manifestation in tears full of tears
Example: The heartbroken woman made a tearful plea to her beloved to forgive her.

Word: Tearjerker
Meaning: a sentimental story; movie; or song; calculated to evoke sadness or sympathy
Example: First it was The Fault in Our Stars; then it was Me Before You; and now Thirteen Reasons Why is the latest popular tearjerker.

Word: Teary-eyed
Meaning: having eyes that are wet with tears
Example: The teary-eyed bride wiped her cheeks and smiled up at her soon to be husband.

Word: Tease
Meaning: to insult another for their physical or mental condition; to irritate or provoke because it brings the antagonizer joy
Example: When he was younger; kids used to tease him about his frizzy hair and braces.

Word: Technic
Meaning: the way a skill or event is presented
Example: The expert fisherman explained the technic to catching a fish by using a desirable bait and lots of patience.

Word: Technicality
Meaning: an extremely specific piece of information that is typically used to win an argument or make a judgment
Example: The eager young job applicant didn't think that she would be refused the job for a simple technicality like forgetting to sign the bottom of her non-disclosure document; but she was wrong.

Word: Technically
Meaning: according to the strict and exact meaning of something
Example: People are told they can do anything they want; but technically they cannot because some things are impossible.

Word: Technician
Meaning: someone who has mastered the basic techniques necessary for a trade and employs them effectively
Example: The lab technician applied a variety of scientific techniques to analyze the specimen.

Word: Technique
Meaning: a procedure or method used to carry out a task
Example: Trying out a new technique for dying hair; the beautician was able to cut her client’s wait time in half.

Word: Technocracy
Meaning: a ruling power who governs with heavy reliance on technology
Example: In many science fiction novels; the world is ruled by a technocracy where scientists and technology reign supreme.

Word: Technological
Meaning: related to advanced machinery or techniques
Example: Apple is known for their quick technological advancements.

Word: Technology
Meaning: using scientific ideas for practical purposes; specifically in solving industry problems
Example: Replacing the office’s outdated computer systems with new technology would allow the workers to get a lot more done.

Word: Techy
Meaning: technical or characterized by technological abilities
Example: Techy gifts can be bought on a budget at the new; technology-based street shop.

Word: Tectonic 
Meaning: relating to the surface of the Earth’s crust and movement
Example: Movements along the coast were likely due to tectonic shifts in the Earth’s crust.

Word: Tedious
Meaning: boring; annoying because it is long or slow
Example: Watching paint dry seems tedious.

Word: Tedium
Meaning: the condition of being dull or boring for a long period
Example: To ease the tedium of looking at accounting forms all day; I listen to bubbly music while I work.

Word: Teem
Meaning: to be present or gather in a large number
Example: Honeycombs teem with worker bees who work tirelessly to produce honey for their queen.

Word: Teeming
Meaning: filled with an abundance of things
Example: The homeless dog’s fur was teeming with fleas.

Word: Teeter
Meaning: to be unsteady or to wobble
Example: The judges held their breaths as they watched the normally skilled gymnast teeter on the edge of the balance beam.

Word: Teetered
Meaning: moved unsteadily back and forth
Example: The wobbly toddler teetered back and forth before finally toppling over on the floor.

Word: Teleconference
Meaning: a conference with multiple people in different locations over telecommunications
Example: Because the CEO’s were in different states; they had to have a teleconference over the phone for their meeting.

Word: Telegenic
Meaning: appearing attractive on television
Example: The telegenic news reporter looked even more beautiful on television than she did in person.

Word: Telegnosis
Meaning: knowledge of events acquired from supernatural sources and without the use of the senses
Example: The psychic must have used telegnosis to read the future; as she could not have learned that information any other way.

Word: Telegram
Meaning: a message or information sent by telegraph
Example: Before telephones; people’s messages had to be sent in the form of a telegram and printed out.

Word: Telegraph
Meaning: to convey intent through physical signs
Example: If you telegraph your attack to the enemy they will know it’s coming before you move; which is why you shouldn’t give yourself away before you’re ready.

Word: Telekinesis
Meaning: the ability to move objects with the power of one's mind
Example: Using telekinesis; the spiritual lady transferred the pencil to the desk.

Word: Telemeter
Meaning: an instrument used for measuring the distance of an object from an observer
Example: The hands of a telemeter can tell you how far away an approaching thunderstorm is at the moment.

Word: Telemetry
Meaning: the act of recording and transmitting data from an instrument
Example: We’ll use telemetry to send our research data to the other station; and they’ll be able to interpret what we saw on the radar.

Word: Teleological
Meaning: the philosophical attempt to describe every object in regards to its apparent use or purpose
Example: In teleological thinking; you would describe a fork by saying what it is used for; rather than what it looks like or is made of.

Word: Telepathy
Meaning: the ability to communicate with another person mentally without using any motions or words
Example: Many people believe twins have telepathy and can talk to each other without speaking.

Word: Telephonic
Meaning: relating to a telephone
Example: Telephonic life coaching is provided over the phone for those who need help losing weight.

Word: Telescope
Meaning: an optical instrument that uses curved lenses to magnify the visual image of far-off objects
Example: Because planets are too far away for us to see with the naked eye; we need to use a special instrument like a telescope to see them.

Word: Telescopic
Meaning: relating to a telescope or optical enlargement
Example: The telescopic nature of the lens made the image look larger to me; just like a telescope is supposed to do.

Word: Tell
Meaning: to communicate information or facts
Example: Hillary wants to tell her mom that she has a boyfriend; but she knows that her mother will be upset by the news.

Word: Telling
Meaning: having a revealing or enlightening effect or quality
Example: The rude way he spoke to his mother was telling of how obnoxiously he treated the authority over him in all parts of his life.

Word: Telltale
Meaning: something that is a blatant indicator of the state of something
Example: The rotted wood of the walls was a telltale sign of the building’s old age; and would need to be repaired if I wanted it to look new again.

Word: Temerarious
Meaning: reckless; rash; or dangerously bold
Example: The temerarious young man decided to ride a bull for fun; something that wasn’t very smart on his part.

Word: Temerity
Meaning: excessive confidence or boldness; audacity
Example: We were shocked Ann Marie had the temerity to challenge our teacher’s authority in class.

Word: Temper
Meaning: an individual’s level of calmness
Example: Jason lost his temper and broke the bathroom mirror.

Word: Temperament 
Meaning: the nature or personality of an animal or individual
Example: While the twins are identical physically; they differ in temperament with one being outgoing and the other shy.

Word: Temperamental
Meaning: easily upset or likely to become angry
Example: The temperamental toddler becomes upset easily and throws tantrums any time she doesn’t get her way.

Word: Temperance
Meaning: moderation and restraint; though usually in reference to consumption
Example: Determined to never become an alcoholic; Tim exercised temperance whenever he drank alcohol so he wouldn’t drink too much.

Word: Temperate
Meaning: to have moderate or mild weather
Example: Living in a temperate climate; I sometimes had to wear my jacket in the early fall since it was cool outside.

Word: Temperature
Meaning: a measure of the warmth or coolness of an object
Example: The baby felt too warm; so her mother knew that her body temperature was probably elevated.

Word: Tempest
Meaning: stormy weather
Example: The tempest has replaced the sunlight and caused us to move our picnic indoors.

Word: Tempestuous
Meaning: identified by stormy or explosive conditions
Example: My father’s tempestuous mood often leaves my mother in tears.

Word: Template
Meaning: a shaped piece of metal; wood; card; plastic; or other material used as a pattern for processes such as painting; cutting out; shaping; or drilling
Example: The recent graduate used a template off of the internet to format her resume.

Word: Temple
Meaning: a building that is devoted to religious worship
Example: Every year; thousands of people fill the temple to worship their god and pay respects to their ancestors inside the sanctuary.

Word: Tempo
Meaning: the rate or speed of music or some other activity
Example: Speeding up the tempo; the street musician attracted patients by playing his song faster and faster.

Word: Temporal
Meaning: associated with the real world and not the spiritual world
Example: Liam's very religious aunt believes people should shun temporal pleasures and focus on being worthy of the joys of the afterlife.

Word: Temporary
Meaning: not permanent; existing only for a period or periods of time
Example: Marc was informed that his job was temporary and that when the summer was over he would need to look elsewhere.

Word: Temporize
Meaning: to lengthen a discussion in order to have additional time to think or negotiate
Example: Because we could not reach an agreement; we chose to break for refreshments in order to temporize.

Word: Tempt
Meaning: to lure or influence someone or something with a thing they want but know they shouldn’t have
Example: My favorite chocolaty cookies could be seen through the transparent glass cookie jar which seemed to tempt me to eat them right before dinner.

Word: Temptation
Meaning: something used to lure or entice
Example: The temptation of chocolate caramel cake was almost too much for the poor dieter to bear.

Word: Tempter
Meaning: someone or something that lures or entices
Example: As the strange car pulled up next to the little girl; the tempter tried to get her into the car with some yummy candy.

Word: Tempting
Meaning: appealing and able to attract someone; especially to something that is wrong
Example: Though her advances were tempting; the married man refused to accept the gorgeous woman’s advances.

Word: Tenable
Meaning: able to be protected or maintained
Example: During the battle; we were fortunate to be safe behind a tenable castle wall.

Word: Tenacious
Meaning: not readily letting go of or giving up
Example: Even though Jackson was smaller than his other teammates; his tenacious attitude allowed him to accomplish as much as they did.

Word: Tenacity
Meaning: the quality of being determined to do or achieve something
Example: Jake’s tenacity allowed him to excel in college while working two jobs.

Word: Tenant
Meaning: someone that pays someone else to live on their property
Example: The tenant pays his landlord eight hundred dollars a month to live in his apartment complex.

Word: Tend
Meaning: to be liable or susceptible to
Example: Forests tend to be more vulnerable to fires during the summer; when most of the underbrush is dry and more combustible.

Word: Tendency
Meaning: frequently having the inclination to do something
Example: Because Amanda is depressed; she has the tendency to see everything in a negative way.

Word: Tendentious 
Meaning: exhibiting a certain prejudice towards a subject
Example: The president was tendentious on his plan for the company and would not listen to other options.

Word: Tender
Meaning: soft; gentle manner
Example: The mother gave her newborn a tender look so full of love that it brought her husband to tears.

Word: Tenderfoot
Meaning: a raw and unsophisticated newcomer
Example: With his unkempt appearance; the tenderfoot was not aware that he should have dressed up for his first day of work.

Word: Tendon
Meaning: a strong; fibrous tissue that attaches a muscle to a bone
Example: The football player will undergo offseason surgery to reattach the torn tendon in his right elbow.

Word: Tenebrous
Meaning: dark or shadowy
Example: After wandering into the tenebrous alley; Chelsea became frightened by the dark backstreet.

Word: Tenement
Meaning: a neglected and overcrowded apartment building
Example: Growing up in a crowded tenement; I was surrounded by shabby walls and broken appliances.

Word: Tenet
Meaning: a belief or opinion considered valid by a group or individual
Example: According to the church’s tenet; ministers are forbidden to marry so they can give their entire souls to God.

Word: Tenfold
Meaning: ten times the original amount
Example: My friend told me he would return my sixty-dollar loan tenfold and give me six hundred dollars when he received his inheritance.

Word: Tenor
Meaning: the highest singing voice of the average adult male range (between baritone and alto)
Example: Because he is a tenor; Mike’s singing voice is much higher than the other men in the choir.

Word: Tension
Meaning: unrest that creates opposition within or between groups or persons
Example: The mediation was filled with tension as the husband and wife argued over the terms of their divorce.

Word: Tentative
Meaning: not certain or fixed
Example: The time of the party is tentative and subject to change.

Word: Tentatively
Meaning: hesitantly; not sure
Example: Because I was worried the pool might be too cold; I tentatively stuck my foot in the water.

Word: Tenterhook
Meaning: a hook used to fasten cloth to a drying frame
Example: Any hook that you use to hang up wet clothes to air dry can be identified as a tenterhook; though this method is rarely used anymore.

Word: Tenuous
Meaning: weak and likely to change; having little substance or strength
Example: Because the evidence against her is tenuous; the accused murderer will be released from jail on bail.

Word: Tenure
Meaning: occupying a position or office; usually in government
Example: With a tenure exceeding forty years; Judge Marshall has held his office longer than any other judge in our county.

Word: Tepid
Meaning: displaying little interest or enthusiasm
Example: The play’s premiere received tepid reviews from the disappointed critics.

Word: Term
Meaning: a fixed period in which something is supposed to last
Example: The president only served one term and decided not to run for reelection.

Word: Termagant
Meaning: an argumentative female
Example: Mark didn’t realize he’d married a termagant until his wife started to nag him daily.

Word: Terminal
Meaning: a computer device that returns information to user input
Example: A computer laptop or desktop is essentially a terminal; storing information and giving that information to the user when it is requested.

Word: Terminate
Meaning: to bring something to a close or end
Example: To save the mother; the doctors must terminate the life of the unborn child.

Word: Terminology
Meaning: words used within a specific context or subject
Example: The chef used unique food terminology when naming the menu items in the restaurant.

Word: Terminus
Meaning: the end or final point of something
Example: The city is the terminus for many different flights throughout the United States.

Word: Terpischorean
Meaning: of or relating to dancing
Example: Our dance teacher told me I did not have a terpsichorean bone in my body because I couldn’t dance.

Word: Terra Firma
Meaning: dry land; distinguishable from sea and air
Example: The beach is Terra Firma; its sand being instinctually different from the water that borders it; even though they blend so well.

Word: Terrace
Meaning: an area outside a building or residence where individuals relax
Example: Since the weather was so pleasant; we decided to spend the day lounging on the terrace near the pool.

Word: Terrain
Meaning: the attributes of a geographic region
Example: When walking mountainous terrain; it is essential you protect your feet by wearing boots.

Word: Terrestrial 
Meaning: relating to the land or the Earth
Example: Earth’s terrestrial biomes include areas such as deserts; taigas; and tropical rainforests.

Word: Terrific
Meaning: an above average; usually exceptional event or incident
Example: The students did a terrific job on the SATs with most of them scoring on the high 1400s.

Word: Terrify
Meaning: to scare someone or something
Example: During Halloween; masked adults will hop out in monster costumes and terrify the people around them.

Word: Terrifying
Meaning: causing extreme fear or horror
Example: The movie-goers screamed and hid their faces while watching the terrifying film at the theater.

Word: Territory
Meaning: an area or zone
Example: Drug dealers on the northside would kill any rival gang member who tried to come into their territory.

Word: Terror
Meaning: extreme or radical fear
Example: Many people have a phobia; and being in the presence of what they fear will fill them with absolute terror.

Word: Terse
Meaning: a very short statement or remark
Example: When Jessie is angry; she only gives terse responses.

Word: Tertiary
Meaning: third in a particular order
Example: Because he had arrived to the lunch room so quickly; John managed to get a tertiary position in line behind Sam and Linda.

Word: Tessellation
Meaning: an arrangement of shapes; usually polygons; closely fitted together in a repeating pattern without gaps
Example: The painter used a tessellation in his mosaic painting; with many shapes all right next to each other.

Word: Tesserae
Meaning: a small square of material used in ancient times for a token; ticket; tally; or other such item
Example: Most civilizations of the past liked to use precious materials as tesserae; which is why ancient Rome used gold for their currency.

Word: Test
Meaning: to check the quality or performance of something
Example: I decided to test the skills of my brother in a game of air hockey; but it turned out that he was much better than me.

Word: Testament
Meaning: a thing or incident that acts as evidence or proof of a fact or event
Example: Rick’s story of accomplishment is a testament that hard work breeds success.

Word: Testify
Meaning: to state what you witnessed or provide evidence to the court
Example: The witness was nervous to testify about what she had seen during the robbery.

Word: Testimonial
Meaning: a written recommendation
Example: Part of the job application required a testimonial from three previous employers.

Word: Testimony
Meaning: a formal statement; typically given in a court of law
Example: The defendant in court had to give a testimony about where they were the day before so they could prove they did not commit the crime.

Word: Testosterone
Meaning: a hormone that stimulates the growth of male sexual characteristics
Example: Testosterone is the hormone that makes boys’ voices deeper as they go through puberty; and without it their voice would remain high pitched.

Word: Testy
Meaning: easily ticked off or irritated
Example: My husband is often testy and in a bad mood after a hard day at work.

Word: Tether
Meaning: "to hold something in place while still allowing
Example: 

Word: movement"
Meaning: Before the cowboy settles down for the evening; he will tether the horses around a tree.
Example: 

Word: Teutonic
Meaning: relating to the ancient Celtic tribe known as the Teutons
Example: The German language is derived from the Teutonic language of the past; used by the Teuton tribe of Celts.

Word: Textile
Meaning: a type of cloth or woven fabric
Example: A textile mill was built in the area to produce clothing and other fabric based products.

Word: Textual
Meaning: relating to text
Example: All of the information in books are textual; but technically any information that is written is textual as well.

Word: Texture
Meaning: the feel or physical sensation of an object
Example: The texture of these curtains is velvety and smooth; making them very pleasant to the touch.

Word: Thalassic
Meaning: relating to the sea
Example: We needed a ship to go on a thalassic adventure; because we definitely couldn’t swim across the sea.

Word: Thankful
Meaning: pleased and appreciative
Example: After receiving the lovely baby gifts at my shower; I wrote a thankful note to express how I happy I was for those gifts for my baby.

Word: Thankfully
Meaning: to be done in a grateful manner
Example: Thankfully I was able to complete my homework on time; because I was worried that I would not be able to.

Word: Thankless
Meaning: not expressing or feeling gratitude for something
Example: Even though the old man gave me some food; I know he did it only to feel better about himself; so I’m feeling rather thankless to him.

Word: Thanksgiving
Meaning: demonstration of appreciation
Example: Once the adrenalin junkie survived the vicious shark attack; he truly felt thanksgiving for his own life as he swore he would never do anything life-threatening again.

Word: Thatch
Meaning: the top part on a house made of hay; stalks; grasses or foliage
Example: Wind blew away part of the thatch on the cottage causing droplets of water to pour down into the rooms.

Word: Thaw
Meaning: to melt or defrost
Example: If you leave ice out of the freezer; it will thaw into a messy puddle of water.

Word: The Cat's Pajamas
Meaning: something that is exceptional; excellent; or amazing
Example: When I introduced my great grandmother to the internet; she said it was the Cat’s Pajamas; which apparently means it’s awesome.

Word: The Nitty Gritty
Meaning: the essentials or basics of something
Example: Rather than get wrapped up in technology that grows ever more complex; I’d rather stick to the nitty gritty of things; like regular flip phones and Internet Explorer.

Word: Theatre
Meaning: a playhouse or public place where movies or plays are shown
Example: Ushers dressed in a red suit would seat the people in the Downtown Little River Theatre prior to the beginning of the play.

Word: Theatrical
Meaning: pertaining to drama or the performing arts
Example: Bryson Middle School’s theatrical production of Annie was being shown at the school’s auditorium for three nights.

Word: Theatrics
Meaning: words or behavior that is dramatic and exaggerated as if related to the theater
Example: The crying girl’s theatrics irritated her parents who were tired of her constant drama.

Word: Thee
Meaning: meaning “you” as a single person or entity
Example: “To thee; I give my heart” was the common expression written on many Valentine’s Day cards at the gift shop.

Word: Theft
Meaning: robbery or taking things without permission that don’t belong to you
Example: Arrests were made when the teenagers were charged with theft since they had jewelry belonging to their parents in their possession.

Word: Thematic
Meaning: pertaining to a certain topic; idea or matter
Example: Ms. Taylor taught all of her subjects in her 4th grade class using a thematic unit about careers.

Word: Theme
Meaning: a certain topic; idea or subject
Example: This year’s theme at the annual Behavioral Conference in Austin; Texas is cyberbullying since this has become such a major problem recently.

Word: Themselves
Meaning: used to describe a group of people or things that were previously mentioned
Example: Mr. Hale and his wife like to go out to eat; but they also enjoy cooking for themselves.

Word: Thence
Meaning: from this point or place on
Example: From thence; the incarcerated man would spend life behind bars and never see freedom again.

Word: Theocracy
Meaning: a form of government in which the religious officials are the leaders
Example: In theocracy; the rulers of a country make laws based on religious ideas.

Word: Theology
Meaning: the study of religion
Example: In order to become a minister; the man studied theology at the seminary for many years.

Word: Theorem
Meaning: a statement deduced from studies or experiments
Example: After years of trying different ways to calculate the length of the hypotenuse of a triangle; Pythagoras finally created his theorem.

Word: Theoretical
Meaning: pertaining to an idea based on conducted experiments or studies
Example: No one contested her theoretical idea since it was based on years of research and testing.

Word: Theorize
Meaning: to draw a conclusion based on conducted experiments or studies
Example: Hundreds of years ago; many scientists would state that the earth is flat until Galileo would theorize that the earth is round.

Word: Theory
Meaning: a conclusion based on conducted experiments or studies
Example: Many people disagree about the Big Bang Theory creating the universe due to the lack of evidence.

Word: Therapeutic
Meaning: associated with the healing of a sickness
Example: The therapeutic massage relieved the pain in my back.

Word: Therapy
Meaning: remedy or help to mend an ailment or condition
Example: Therapy was required after a traumatic car accident in order to repair the victim’s broken bones.

Word: Therapy
Meaning: a treatment used to improve one’s physical or mental condition
Example: The patient is going to physical therapy to gain control of her knee movement again.

Word: Thereafter
Meaning: afterward or subsequently
Example: Due to many times of trying to match the paint to the walls; the painter thereafter refused to go back to Home Depot.

Word: Thereby
Meaning: thus; in doing so
Example: The wife offered a heartfelt apology; thereby saving her marriage.

Word: Therefore
Meaning: so; consequently
Example: Elizabeth wants to lose weight and therefore refuses to eat anything made of carbs.

Word: Therefore
Meaning: so; for that reason
Example: Lindsey doesn’t like going to the theater; therefore; she turned down the invitation to the show.

Word: Therein
Meaning: in that place
Example: Racism is passed down generationally and therein lies the problem.

Word: Thereof
Meaning: of that; of the thing just mentioned
Example: Money; or a lack thereof; can influence people to do some really bad things.

Word: Thereon
Meaning: on or following from the thing just mentioned
Example: The chef brought a large platter to the kitchen and piled meat thereon.

Word: Thereunto
Meaning: to that place or thing
Example: Reba enjoyed worshipping at the temple and hastened thereunto ever chance she got.

Word: Thereupon
Meaning: immediately; shortly after
Example: The police chief thereupon ordered a blocking of the road so that more accidents did not occur.

Word: Therm
Meaning: a unit of heat that equals 100;000 British thermal units
Example: The wholesale price of gas per therm has gone up significantly the past few weeks.

Word: Thermal
Meaning: heat related
Example: Venturing out into the thermal pool; the swimmer let out a sigh of relief as the hot water eased her aching back.

Word: Thermodynamics
Meaning: the science of heat and temperature
Example: Our thermodynamics teacher had us design an experiment that showed the three most common ways heat is transferred.

Word: Thermograph
Meaning: a recording thermometer that registers the temperature it measures
Example: The self-registering thermograph printed a graph showing the daily temperatures for the month of May.

Word: Thermometer
Meaning: an instrument used to measure the temperature (how much heat is present)
Example: The doctor used the thermometer to see if the boy’s body temperature was too high.

Word: Thermonuclear
Meaning: relating to devices that use high temperatures from a nuclear reaction to cause powerful explosions
Example: France’s thermonuclear bombs were developed without the help of countries who already had high level explosives.

Word: Thermos
Meaning: a special container that keeps liquids hot or cold
Example: Carrying her joe in a thermos allowed the coffee junkie to have warm java throughout the day.

Word: Thermosphere
Meaning: the outermost layer of the earth’s atmosphere that is characterized by steadily increasing temperature with height
Example: As the outside layer of the earth’s surface; the temperature of thermosphere really depends on the position of the sun.

Word: Thermostat
Meaning: an automatic device for controlling temperature
Example: Even though he liked to leave the thermostat at 70 degrees; the man’s hot-natured wife would often turn it down to 63 during the night.

Word: Thesaurus
Meaning: a book in which words that have the same or similar meanings (synonyms) are grouped together
Example: Words listed with the word ‘sad’ in the thesaurus include unhappy; blue; and gloomy.

Word: Thesis
Meaning: a statement that is discussed and debated
Example: The student’s experiments helped her formulate a thesis to share with her professor and classmates.

Word: Thespian
Meaning: relating to drama or the theater
Example: Making his thespian debut; the newbie took the stage and gave the theatrical performance of a lifetime.

Word: Thick
Meaning: broad; wide
Example: The football player’s thick shoulders were much wider than the rest of his narrow body.

Word: Thicket
Meaning: a very dense group of trees or bushes
Example: Moving through the dense thicket; the explorers could barely see through the trees.

Word: Thickness
Meaning: depth; wideness
Example: The thickness of the river made it difficult for the pioneers to wade across.

Word: Thief
Meaning: one who steals things from others
Example: A thief crept up to the house and stole several items while the owners slept.

Word: Thin
Meaning: skinny; slender
Example: The skinny ballerina’s bones seemed to poke through her thin skin.

Word: Thine
Meaning: a form of the word thy or the word your that is used before a vowel
Example: To thine own self you should always be true.

Word: Thing
Meaning: an object
Example: The only thing that should be placed in the cabinet are cans.

Word: Thingamajig
Meaning: an object that one can’t recall the name of
Example: I can’t remember the use of that thingamajig or the name of the product either.

Word: Think
Meaning: to reason or consider
Example: The judge needed time to think before making a decision in court.

Word: Think
Meaning: to have an opinion about someone or something
Example: I think that we should get up for school an hour earlier; but my sister feels we should sleep later.

Word: Third-rate 
Meaning: of poor or low-grade quality
Example: Because all of the first-class flight seats were sold out; I had to settle for a third-rate ticket.

Word: Thirdhand
Meaning: describes goods that have been passed down to a third person after having been owned by two others
Example: The thirdhand vehicle had two previous owners; but it was still in great condition.

Word: Thirst
Meaning: to desire or crave
Example: Lots of water was needed to quench the dying man’s thirst for water.

Word: Thirsty
Meaning: to be slightly dehydrated or dry
Example: After running a few miles in the hot sun; the runner became thirsty and grabbed a cup of water from a volunteer during the marathon.

Word: Thither
Meaning: toward that place
Example: We followed the foot prints leading towards the woods in search of the cabin; but they did not lead us thither.

Word: Thorax
Meaning: the chest; or part of the anatomy that is located between the neck and the abdomen
Example: Lying between the neck and abdomen; the man’s thorax was the main place cancer had evaded.

Word: Thorn
Meaning: a sharp prickle that extends from a plant
Example: Piercing the gardener’s finger; the rose’s thorn drew blood to the surface.

Word: Thorough
Meaning: detailed and careful
Example: A thorough investigation of the crime brought out lots of details but no motive.

Word: Thoroughbred
Meaning: used to refer to animals of a pure breed; though it is typically used for horses
Example: A thoroughbred horse is born of two parents of the same breed; and has no blood from any other breed at all.

Word: Thoroughfare
Meaning: a main road in a town
Example: If you want to go straight through town you should use the thoroughfare; which is the biggest road in the center of town.

Word: Thoroughness
Meaning: great care or attention to detail when doing something
Example: Because the job is delicate; I had to complete it with great thoroughness to ensure that I did it correctly.

Word: Thou
Meaning: an ancient way of saying ‘you'
Example: Thou are a most vile; disgusting individual; and I am lesser for knowing your face.

Word: Thought
Meaning: an idea or opinion that is created in the mind
Example: The thought of working out crossed Darren’s mind; but he decided to skip the gym today.

Word: Thoughtful
Meaning: to be kind and considerate
Example: After her mother passed away; the young woman received many thoughtful cards expressing sympathy for her loss.

Word: Thoughtless
Meaning: to be unkind and inconsiderate
Example: The thoughtless acts of evil were viewed from the children as the older boy threw rocks at the injured puppy.

Word: Thousand
Meaning: a number equal to ten hundreds
Example: Since the jacket cost a thousand dollars; I had to take really good care of it due to its expensive price.

Word: Thrall
Meaning: the state of being under the control of another person
Example: During historical times; a citizen would become aware quickly of the evil thrall of a dictator’s control.

Word: Thrash
Meaning: to hit or strike continuously
Example: When the pit bull dog began to bite the child’s leg; the father began to thrash the dog with a stick to get it to release its grip.

Word: Thread
Meaning: a strand of string or fiber used in sewing
Example: With my needle and thread; I began to mend the hole in my pants which had ripped at the seam.

Word: Threadbare
Meaning: pertaining to something that is worn out or ragged
Example: After living in the woods for a week without supplies; my threadbare clothing was not protecting me from the elements.

Word: Threat
Meaning: the act of being in hazard or danger
Example: With the approaching tornado; there was a definite threat of impending harm on the citizens in the community.

Word: Threaten
Meaning: to put someone or something in hazard or danger
Example: If you threaten violence; you stand the chance of getting in trouble with the law.

Word: Threatening
Meaning: having a hostile or intimidating manner
Example: The threatening letter stated that a bomb would be placed in a random mailbox around the city once every day.

Word: Threateningly
Meaning: done in a hostile or intimidating manner
Example: The bully raised his fist at the boy threateningly and made him give up his lunch money.

Word: Threefold
Meaning: referring to something that is triple the amount
Example: With Harry; Tom and Sam from the same gang all in jail together; this threefold group presented a problem to the warden.

Word: Thresh
Meaning: to detach a seed or useless part of the crop from the rest of the flower or crop
Example: As soon as the farmers thresh their crops; they will usually replant the seeds on their new land.

Word: Threshold
Meaning: the level at which an individual is defenseless or helpless
Example: I knew I had reached my threshold of pain when I had to take a pill for comfort.

Word: Thrice
Meaning: three times the amount of something
Example: When the teacher thrice repeated the directions to her students; she was angry that they failed to listen the first couple of times.

Word: Thrift
Meaning: the act of being cautious with your money
Example: Nonprofit organizations use their thrift to buy needed items to make life better for those they are devoted to helping.

Word: Thrifty
Meaning: careful with money
Example: The thrifty family decided to have a garage sale to bring in extra income.

Word: Thrill
Meaning: excitement and joy
Example: The teenage girls were all smiles on their first road trip due to the thrill of the adventure.

Word: Thrilling
Meaning: exciting and inspiring
Example: The roller coaster ride was thrilling because every rider had a smile on their face and was screaming with delight.

Word: Thrive 
Meaning: to do better or increase in size or number
Example: In its new place on the windowsill; the plant is sure to thrive and bloom regularly.

Word: Throat
Meaning: the esophagus or the place on a living being where swallowing occurs
Example: Before speaking the first word of his speech; Artie cleared his throat completely and took a deep breath.

Word: Throb
Meaning: to pulse or pound
Example: Pain began to throb in my leg due to my clumsiness when I fell and landed on it.

Word: Throbbing
Meaning: pertaining to a pounding rhythm
Example: As the most popular boy walked down the hallway; Patricia’s heart began throbbing faster and faster.

Word: Throes
Meaning: intense struggle or agony
Example: We decided to have our dog put down because he was in the throes of incurable pain.

Word: Thrombosis
Meaning: the thickening or lump of blood preventing or blocking the flow of blood
Example: Emergency surgery was scheduled for the young woman whose thrombosis had become life-threatening from the blood clot.

Word: Throne
Meaning: seat or chair for a royal official
Example: As the king of the castle sat on his throne; the criminal came before the king to explain his case.

Word: Throng
Meaning: a large cluster of individuals
Example: When the game ended; a throng of fans carried some of the winning players off the field.

Word: Throttle
Meaning: to suffocate by cutting off someone’s air supply in order to kill or hurt him or her
Example: At the crime scene; investigators quickly realized that the assailant did throttle the victim due to the red marks around the victim’s neck.

Word: Throughout
Meaning: all over or the whole time
Example: Rain poured down in droves throughout the day without relinquishing causing all of school’s athletic events to be canceled.

Word: Throw
Meaning: to toss or heave
Example: Please throw the torn clothing in the trash and toss the stained things in there too.

Word: Throwaway
Meaning: a material or product that is disposable or non recyclable
Example: Throwaway razor blades and disposable cups are now common household products that don’t get reused.

Word: Throwback
Meaning: a prompting back to something or sometime in the past
Example: While the teenage boy was helping the teacher glue glitter onto the paper; he felt that it was a throwback to his kindergarten days.

Word: Thrown
Meaning: to have pitched something through the air
Example: Knowing the batter struggles with hitting curve balls; the pitcher should have thrown a curve ball in order to get him out.

Word: Thrust
Meaning: to force something in a certain direction
Example: Sometimes; the wind will be so strong that it will thrust open an unlocked door to a building or house.

Word: Thumb
Meaning: the short thick inside digit on a hand
Example: During my arrest; the officer took my fingerprints by first rolling my thumb over the screen.

Word: Thump
Meaning: to tap something hard
Example: Many shoppers will thump a watermelon to see if it is ripe while grocery shopping in the produce section of the store.

Word: Thunder
Meaning: the crackling or roaring sound in weather occurring sometimes with lightning
Example: During the storm; the thunder crashed while the lightning lit up the sky against a dark background.

Word: Thunderous
Meaning: extremely loud
Example: The thunderous storm made crashing sounds throughout the night; frightening the sleeping children out of bed.

Word: Thus
Meaning: as an effect of something else; then
Example: “We have sold 225 dollars worth of girl scout cookies thus far;” said the troop leader; “but we have a long way to go to reach our goal.”

Word: Thwart
Meaning: to hinder or stop something from happening
Example: Someone built this wall with broken bottles set in the top to thwart the intrusion of outsiders.

Word: Thy
Meaning: a word meaning “your” that was used in older times
Example: “If honesty runs in your family; then thy truth will be told today;” the prosecutor explained to the witness.

Word: Tickle
Meaning: to poke or slightly grab someone resulting in laughing
Example: While sitting on his lap; Uncle Paul would tickle his niece under her chin causing her to giggle.

Word: Tidal
Meaning: referring to ocean waves
Example: Islanders feared a tidal wave would come on shore since scientists had warned that the probability was great.

Word: Tidbit
Meaning: a tiny amount of something
Example: Any tidbit of food was needed by the lost hikers in the wilderness since they hadn’t eaten for days.

Word: Tide
Meaning: the various levels of water in the ocean
Example: “As we go later into our day;” the meteorologist stated; “the tide will turn and be more dangerous to anyone who goes out into the water.”

Word: Tidiness
Meaning: the act of being neat or something that is neat
Example: After noticing the tidiness of the children’s playroom; the family realized that their maid had worked today.

Word: Tidings
Meaning: reports or announcements of facts
Example: Tidings of happiness that World War II was finally over circulated around the world by radio broadcasts.

Word: Tidy
Meaning: to be orderly and organized
Example: Showing a tidy house to the potential buyers left a good impression with them as the house had been taken care of.

Word: Tie
Meaning: to clasp or join two strings; fabric or other material together
Example: My four-year old niece learned how to tie her shoes so she might stop tripping on her loose shoelaces.

Word: Tier
Meaning: a level; layer or step
Example: Due to the high dropout rate and low test scores; this high school ranked in the bottom tier of the list of good schools in the state.

Word: Tiff
Meaning: a small conflict usually between two people
Example: What started as a little tiff between the two sisters turned into a fight with hair-pulling and slapping.

Word: Tight-knit
Meaning: describes a group that is well-organized and closely united
Example: Our family is a tight-knit group; and we enjoy going on family vacations together several times a year.

Word: Tight-lipped
Meaning: reluctant to speak or give information
Example: Even during the trial; the uncooperative defendant remained tight-lipped about his part in the crime.

Word: Tight
Meaning: close together with no extra space in between
Example: Her pencil skirt was so tight that the young lady could only waddle down the street at a snail’s pace.

Word: Tile
Meaning: a shaped flattened piece of rock or clay used in floors or coverings
Example: After removing the linoleum; the home owner decided to tile the floor so that it looked like more modern.

Word: Till
Meaning: to tend to or work the soil
Example: Slaves were expected to till the soil for many hours a day on a large plantation in which many died from exhaustion.

Word: Tilt
Meaning: to slant or list to one side
Example: If you put a heavy object onto the table; it will tilt to the right since the top of it isn’t screwed in properly.

Word: Timber
Meaning: lumber primarily used for commercial or building use
Example: A timber was place around each side of the raised flowerbed giving it a natural look before filling the bed with mulch.

Word: Timbre 
Meaning: The quality of a sound aside from its volume and pitch.
Example: The opera star’s timbre was rich and filled with vibrato.

Word: Time
Meaning: the juncture or point at which an event takes place
Example: When the bell rang; it was time to say good-bye to my therapist since my half hour was up.

Word: Timeless
Meaning: classic; lasting through the ages
Example: The timeless movie was popular in past generations and with current moviegoers.

Word: Timeline
Meaning: an estimated plan of how long something will or should take
Example: To meet the timeline of completion; construction must start tomorrow.

Word: Timeliness
Meaning: the act of something happening at an appropriate period or instant
Example: Due to the timeliness of the child’s birth; the teacher was able to have her baby in the summer and not miss any work.

Word: Timely
Meaning: happening at a previous or correct time
Example: If the shoppers wanted the free gift; then they had to accept the timely offer and pay for the product before 8 p.m. that night.

Word: Timid
Meaning: lacking in courage or confidence
Example: The timid singer nervously approached the microphone.

Word: Timidity
Meaning: the act of shyness
Example: With his head down and barely speaking; the timidity of man shown when he was approached by the manager of the store.

Word: Timorous
Meaning: frightened
Example: The timorous kitten would not come out from under the bed.

Word: Tin
Meaning: a receptacle can made of a metallic element
Example: When the little boy put the pebbles in the tin for safe keeping; he could hear the clinking sound as they hit the bottom.

Word: Tincture
Meaning: a small hint of something
Example: While the student slightly stuttered during her speech in class; I sensed a tincture of nervousness in her voice.

Word: Tinder
Meaning: a very flammable substance adaptable for use as kindling
Example: Lighting the tinder and wood; the camper prepared for an overnight stay at the campground.

Word: Tinge
Meaning: a small but noticeable amount
Example: After kissing his wife; Jim had a tinge of lipstick on his lips.

Word: Tingle
Meaning: a feeling of sharp throbs
Example: After I got up from my nap; my arm began to tingle since I had slept directly on my right arm.

Word: Tinker
Meaning: to try to fix something
Example: Every now and then my father would go to the basement to tinker with a gadget; but he rarely got anything repaired.

Word: Tinkering
Meaning: attempting to fix something without the required knowledge or skill
Example: I spent hours tinkering with my car trying to find out what was wrong with it; but I failed to accomplish anything at all.

Word: Tinsel
Meaning: of superficial attractiveness
Example: The shallow woman cared only for the tinsel aspects of a prospective boyfriend; and not about his personality or character.

Word: Tintinnabulation
Meaning: a ringing or tinkling sound
Example: You are more likely to hear tintinnabulation around Christmas time; when there are more bells and chimes to be heard.

Word: Tiny
Meaning: extremely small
Example: Ants are tiny; but there are so many ants on Earth they outweigh us humans even though they are so small.

Word: Tipsy
Meaning: just slightly drunk
Example: Because my wife has a low tolerance for alcohol; she gets a little tipsy after just one glass of wine.

Word: Tiptoe
Meaning: to walk very quietly on the tips of one’s toes
Example: When sneaking into the house at night; the teen made sure to tiptoe quietly past her parent’s bedroom.

Word: Tiptop
Meaning: the very best something can be
Example: The quality of this beef is tiptop; I would recommend it to anyone and everyone.

Word: Tirade
Meaning: a long and angry speech
Example: Because Carrie is normally a laidback person; she shocked everyone with her tirade.

Word: Tire
Meaning: to grow bored of or exhaust the patience of
Example: The child was quick to tire of his toy and he moved on to something else to entertain himself with.

Word: Tireless
Meaning: determined and unrelenting
Example: While bouncing around; the tireless toddler seemed like he could continue to run around without stopping all day.

Word: Tiresome
Meaning: causing one to feel annoyed or bored
Example: Fed up with their tiresome interruptions; the professor warned his students they would all fail if they did not stop.

Word: Tiring
Meaning: causing someone to lose stamina or energy and require rest
Example: Taking care of a young child is often very tiring; draining people of energy all too quickly.

Word: Tissue
Meaning: The organic material from which living creatures are made; consisting of cells
Example: If you get a cut you are damaging your skin tissue; but it will heal itself over time.

Word: Titanic
Meaning: extremely large
Example: Godzilla is a monster of titanic proportions; dwarfing even buildings as he rampages throughout the city.

Word: Tithe
Meaning: ten percent of earnings typically given to the church as an offering
Example: The most devout churchgoers offer a ten percent monetary tithe to support their congregation.

Word: Titillate 
Meaning: to arouse
Example: The woman hoped her sexy dress would titillate her husband so much he would overlook her outrageous credit card bills.

Word: Title
Meaning: the name or heading of a book; a piece of writing; or artistic work
Example: The author couldn’t think of a title for her story right away; but she eventually came up with a name.

Word: Titter
Meaning: a brief and partially suppressed laugh
Example: The young girl held back a laugh and uttered a titter instead; unable to completely suppress her mirth.

Word: Titular
Meaning: having a completely arbitrary position that is of no real power or authority
Example: England has a Queen; but today her position is completely titular and she has no authority in the government whatsoever.

Word: To no avail
Meaning: fruitless; pointless often referring to making effort but not having success
Example: The football team tried to pull out a win even though they were forty points behind; but their efforts were to no avail.

Word: Toad
Meaning: a contemptible or otherwise hated individual
Example: The traitor Benedict Arnold was a toad through and through; and us true Americans really hate him.

Word: Toady
Meaning: an individual who compliments others for a reason
Example: In order to get a promotion; Amy has been acting like the manager’s toady by agreeing with everything he says.

Word: Toast
Meaning: to cook food by exposing it to radiant heat rather than a direct source
Example: You burn a marshmallow when you put in it the fire; but you toast it when you let the heat from the fire cook it for you.

Word: Tobacco
Meaning: the cured and fermented nicotine rich leaves of the North American Nightshade plant; used for smoking and chewing
Example: My Uncle likes to chew tobacco; but the nicotine in it isn’t very good for his teeth; and they are beginning to deteriorate.

Word: Tocsin
Meaning: an alarm
Example: Pulling the fire alarm at school will set off an ear grating tocsin that lets everyone know that they are supposed to vacate the building as quickly as possible.

Word: Today
Meaning: at the present time
Example: I have a doctor’s appointment at two-o’clock today and will take a cab to the clinic.

Word: Toddler
Meaning: used to refer to a young child that is just learning to walk
Example: My son is just a two year old toddler; having taken his first steps about a week ago.

Word: Toe
Meaning: any one of the five digits at the end of the human foot
Example: I was walking around my house barefooted and I accidentally rammed my little toe into the leg of my kitchen table.

Word: Togetherness
Meaning: the act of being together with or near others
Example: Because it is so cold where they live; penguins like to practice togetherness; huddling up in groups to conserve warmth and protect each other.

Word: Toggle
Meaning: pressing a key or button on a computer to go back and forth between something
Example: The little kids would toggle back and forth between music and you tube on their tablets.

Word: Toil
Meaning: to work for a long period of time
Example: You should hire Justin because he is a hard worker who will toil until the job is done.

Word: Toilsome
Meaning: something that involves a great deal of effort or hard work
Example: Plowing an entire field is quite toilsome; but even though it is hard work farmers have to do it all the time.

Word: Token
Meaning: an object that serves as a voucher for goods and services
Example: At a casino; the coins you win in slot machines serve as a token that you can exchange for prizes or money.

Word: Tolerable
Meaning: something that is alright or decent; but not terrible or great
Example: The average performance of the actors on stage was tolerable; and I certainly would not give them any special awards.

Word: Tolerance
Meaning: ability to withstand problems or discomfort
Example: Since none of the passengers on the plane complained about the constantly screaming baby; they had a high tolerance to the noise.

Word: Tolerant
Meaning: the attribute of being able to endure something in particular
Example: Most desert creatures are quite tolerant to the heat of the sun; so they can resist it better than non-native creatures.

Word: Tolerate
Meaning: to put up with or withstand
Example: Our English teacher could only tolerate students whispering because otherwise the level of noise was too loud for her.

Word: Toleration
Meaning: the process or act of tolerating something
Example: Religious toleration in America is one of its most admirable qualities; as you can practice any religion you want here without persecution.

Word: Toll
Meaning: the number of casualties caused by an event that took lives
Example: The death toll from the tsunami was catastrophically high; reaching well into the tens of thousands across the coastline.

Word: Tomb
Meaning: a large; typically underground chamber used to bury the dead
Example: Because we had so many fallen; we had to bury them in a tomb where there was enough room for them all.

Word: Tome
Meaning: a huge educational written work
Example: At the exhibit of the Templeton Historical Museum; it displayed a scene of a small room including a bed; chest and tome on the small desk.

Word: Tomfoolery
Meaning: foolish or overly silly behavior or actions
Example: My sister is far too serious to play pranks on any of our neighbors; so I had to engage in that tomfoolery by myself.

Word: Tomorrow
Meaning: the day after the present day
Example: We cannot go to the movie today; so we will have to go tomorrow when we have some free time.

Word: Tone
Meaning: the author’s attitude toward a subject in a work
Example: Using many descriptive words and serene scenes; the tone of the poem is calmness and relaxation.

Word: Tonearm
Meaning: the movable part of a record player that allows the needle to follow the record’s groove
Example: The tonearm on the record player was broken and couldn’t move or pick up.

Word: Tongue-in-cheek
Meaning: meant as amusing and not in a serious manner
Example: After waiting in line for over an hour; I did not appreciate the clerk’s tongue-in-cheek comment about annoying customers.

Word: Tongue
Meaning: the muscular organ in the mouth that is used for tasting; swallowing; and articulating speech in the case of humans
Example: If you want to know what a lollipop tastes like; you will have to lick it with your tongue to find out.

Word: Tonnage
Meaning: the actual amount in heaviness that is measured in tons
Example: With the extra tonnage of equipment on the ferry; it was in jeopardy of sinking due to the excess weight.

Word: Took
Meaning: to have removed something from a particular place
Example: The student took several pieces of paper from the classroom down to the office for his teacher.

Word: Tool
Meaning: a device or implement that is used to accomplish a task or function more easily
Example: While there are many ways you can put a nail into a piece of wood; it is far easier to do it with an appropriate tool like a hammer.

Word: Toothsome
Meaning: tasty and delicious
Example: The toothsome gumbo is the most delicious dish included on the café’s menu.

Word: Top-notch
Meaning: of the best quality possible
Example: Betty has decided to higher a top-notch lawyer with many years of experience to handle her divorce case.

Word: Top
Meaning: to exceed or perform better than
Example: I scored over ninety points on my test; and I bet my friend failed to top that since he didn’t study as hard.

Word: Topiary
Meaning: the art of clipping shrubs into ornamental shapes
Example: I like to engage in topiary from time to time; though my favorite shape to cut shrubs into is that of animals.

Word: Topic
Meaning: the subject or theme of a conversation; book; piece of art; etc
Example: Recipes are a usual topic of conversation between the friends since they both like to cook.

Word: Topical
Meaning: pertaining to putting something on a human’s body part usually for medical purposes
Example: After the girl’s foot muscles were aching; she rubbed a topical cream to soothe her throbbing and sore feet.

Word: Topical
Meaning: up to date and relevant to current events
Example: Police shootings of unarmed citizens is a topical issue that is relevant to communities around the country in 2018.

Word: Topography
Meaning: a detailed depiction of an area
Example: The three dimensional map provides a vivid image of the continent’s topography.

Word: Topple
Meaning: to tumble over
Example: Placing the bowling ball onto the flimsy table caused it to topple over onto the floor.

Word: Topsoil
Meaning: the upper level of dirt on the ground
Example: Since the topsoil is rich in nutrients; many plants will flourish since their roots are planted there.

Word: Topsy-turvy
Meaning: upside down or reversed from the way it should be
Example: The political climate is a state of topsy-turvy where every day the world seems more upside down.

Word: Torah
Meaning: the five books found in the beginning of the holy book of the Judaism religion
Example: Reading the Torah; the young Jewish boy became interested in his faith at such a young age.

Word: Torch
Meaning: to intentionally burn something with fire
Example: A rookie chef realized at the last minute that he needed to torch the crème brulee before serving it to the customer.

Word: Tore
Meaning: ripped or split
Example: The gardener tore here favorite dress after getting the hem caught on a rosebush.

Word: Torment
Meaning: to torture and cause pain
Example: Every day when he got on the bus; the bully began to torment the quiet child.

Word: Torn
Meaning: to have ripped or split something apart
Example: As I flipped through the ancient book; I noticed the pages were torn due to it being used so many times.

Word: Tornado
Meaning: a storm involving a revolving cone-shaped cloud with very damaging winds
Example: Kansas declared a state of emergency due to the excessive damage caused by the tornado that came through their state.

Word: Torpedo
Meaning: an underwater weapon that is in the shape of a long tube used as a bomb sent out to destroy other ships
Example: When the war submarine observed the enemy ship in the near distance; the submarine sent a torpedo in its direction.

Word: Torpid
Meaning: lazy or inactive
Example: My torpid brother rests on the couch all day.

Word: Torpor
Meaning: the state of being motionless or inactive
Example: After overeating on Christmas; I fell into a satisfied torpor.

Word: Torque
Meaning: the turning or spinning by force
Example: An automotive expert determined the amount of torque needed to ensure that the car would travel at its maximum speed.

Word: Torrent
Meaning: a huge and heavy cascade of water or other material
Example: With the torrent of rain; I grabbed my umbrella to go outside but really just wanted to remain inside.

Word: Torrential
Meaning: falling rapidly and in large quantities
Example: The flash flood sent a torrential stream of rain through the city streets.

Word: Torrential
Meaning: a large amount of continuously flowing water
Example: Monsoons occur in the Amazon rainforest and feature torrential rainfall that doesn't stop for several weeks.

Word: Torrid 
Meaning: extremely sweltering and dry
Example: During these torrid temperatures; it is best we stay indoors and consume lots of fluids.

Word: Torsion
Meaning: twisting one side or at one point with the other side or point remaining the same
Example: “Due to the torsion of the nerve;” the doctor stated to his patient; “you may feel pain near your neck but your back should feel fine.”

Word: Torso
Meaning: part of the body from the neck down excluding the limbs
Example: Since the man’s t-shirt and shorts covered his torso; he decided to get a tattoo so no one could see it through his clothes.

Word: Tort
Meaning: a wrongdoing; not including contract violations resulting in harm and compensation
Example: After the young man was caught stealing expensive electronics from Ms. Davis’s house; the homeowner sued the young man for tort to redeem the cost of the stolen items.

Word: Tortoise
Meaning: used to refer to anything that is particularly slow moving
Example: While it took me an hour to finish the race; it took my tortoise of a cousin three hours to finish.

Word: Tortuous
Meaning: containing coils; turns and curves
Example: When the tortuous snake moved across the Sahara Desert; his body made an S-shape in the sand.

Word: Torture
Meaning: to purposefully cause or do harm or hurt to someone
Example: Beneath the demented psychopath’s home; he had built a chamber to torture his victims after he kidnapped them.

Word: Toss
Meaning: to throw something lightly or casually
Example: I didn’t want to break my phone; so I decided to toss it on my bed rather than throw it.

Word: Totalitarian
Meaning: associated with a system of governance in which the government controls everything
Example: Some people feel the government is trying to take our civilian rights and turn our nation into a totalitarian state.

Word: Totality
Meaning: the whole or entirety of something
Example: The twenty six letters in the English language make up the totality of the English alphabet.

Word: Totally
Meaning: completely or absolutely
Example: Because the bomb left absolutely nothing left of the city it had been dropped on; the report said that the city had been totally destroyed.

Word: Tote
Meaning: to carry or wield something
Example: Help me tote this heavy box all the way to the other end of the driveway; because I can’t do it by myself.

Word: Totem
Meaning: a natural object or animal a society adopts as an emblem because they believe it has spiritual significance
Example: In Native American society; the Eagle is a very powerful totem; a symbol of great spiritual significance.

Word: Totter
Meaning: to move with an unsteady or unsure gait or walk
Example: Disoriented; I had no choice but to totter towards the edge of the skating rink to grab a hold of the wall before I fell again.

Word: Touch
Meaning: to make physical contact with an object
Example: If you want to touch another person; you will have to be close enough to lay your hand on them.

Word: Touchstone
Meaning: a standard by which something is judged
Example: I used the essay that I received a perfect score on as a touchstone for the other essays I had to write later; so I could get a high score on them as well.

Word: Tough
Meaning: pertaining to something sturdy and that can endure harshness
Example: With the tough weather of severe thunderstorms approaching; the little boat was in danger of capsizing.

Word: Toughness
Meaning: the act of being solid and effortless
Example: Toughness exuded from the young man since he could take any insult and punch without even flinching.

Word: Tour
Meaning: a fun trip with several detailed stops
Example: When the cruise ship passengers’ tour stopped by the local pub; winery and museum; many people were amazed at the sights.

Word: Tourism
Meaning: an industry pertaining to vacationers
Example: Myrtle Beach in South Carolina was created for tourism since it is so close to a warm beach.

Word: Tourist
Meaning: a person who journeys to a place for fun
Example: When the tourist needed information about the local attractions; he consulted the concierge at his hotel for suggestions.

Word: Tourniquet
Meaning: a medical apparatus that is tied around a limb to cut off the blood flow
Example: When the soldier’s leg was ripped off; a medic had to apply a tourniquet around the top part of his thigh so he would not bleed to death.

Word: Tousle 
Meaning: to put into disorder
Example: The blowing wind began to tousle the woman’s hair into a tangled mess.

Word: Tout
Meaning: to brag or flaunt
Example: Listening to the basketball player tout his skill becomes boring after a while.

Word: Tow
Meaning: to haul a vehicle out from somewhere or as an attachment
Example: In order to get the boat out of the water; we had to tow it up the ramp and onto the dock with our heavy duty truck.

Word: Tower
Meaning: a soaring but slender structure
Example: With the clock tower in the middle of the town square; everyone would have to look up the brick thin building to the sky to see the time.

Word: Tower
Meaning: to rise to a great height
Example: Because his wife was so short; 6 foot Ramirez seemed to tower over her.

Word: Town
Meaning: a little place similar to a city
Example: Leadership in the town had dwindled to just a few officials since the population had decreased in size since many people had moved to the big city.

Word: Toxic
Meaning: lethal or fatal
Example: After drinking the toxic substance; the man’s face ballooned to three sizes its normal size before he died.

Word: Toxicity
Meaning: the quality of being toxic or poisonous
Example: The drink showed no toxicity even though it was mixed with a strong poison.

Word: Toxicology
Meaning: the scientific study of fatal substances
Example: A few months after the autopsy; the toxicology report showed that the deceased woman had large amounts of cyanide in her system.

Word: Toxin
Meaning: a substance from plants that is dangerous to ingest sometimes causing sickness rather than death
Example: In order to rid the body of the toxin; many times the body’s initial reaction will cause diarrhea.

Word: Toy
Meaning: a kid’s item intended for fun
Example: At Christmas; my child always received her favorite toy to play with so that she would be happy and occupied for the rest of the day.

Word: Trace
Meaning: to reproduce a design or word by rewriting or re-sketching it onto the piece of paper or other surface
Example: Many children begin to learn how to write their letters by their teaching requiring them to trace over the dashed letters on a worksheet.

Word: Trachea
Meaning: the windpipe of the human body; that is used to transfer air to and from the lungs when your breath
Example: If you punch someone in the throat hard enough; you may crush their trachea and prevent them from breathing; which will kill them.

Word: Track
Meaning: to follow or trail a person or thing
Example: A GPS system was used to track the stolen vehicle and return it to its rightful owner.

Word: Tract
Meaning: a large area or region
Example: Each tract of land is being sold at the price of 1;000 dollars per acre.

Word: Tractable
Meaning: controlled or directed with ease
Example: The dog was more tractable when he wore the vibrating collar.

Word: Traction
Meaning: power or grip that causes a moving thing to stick against the surface
Example: The truck driver searched for a good set of tires that would get good traction on wet roads.

Word: Tractor
Meaning: a vehicle with a motor and large; heavy treaded tires that is used for pulling farm machinery
Example: Using a tractor; the gardener was able to till the tract of land for planting.

Word: Trade-off
Meaning: a compromise in which one thing is traded for something of equal value
Example: As part of the divorce trade-off; the husband has agreed to give his wife the vehicle in exchange for the boat.

Word: Trade
Meaning: to swap or exchange
Example: Before money was used to buy things; Native Americans would trade shells and other objects to get the things they needed.

Word: Trademark
Meaning: a symbol or logo
Example: The McDonald’s famous m-shaped arch is a trademark that is recognized all over the world.

Word: Tradition
Meaning: a cultural custom; ritual; or practice
Example: Members of the Dani tribe of Indonesia have a strange tradition of cutting off parts of their fingers when a loved one dies.

Word: Traditional
Meaning: keeping with long-standing traditions or customs
Example: The same traditional Passover foods are eaten by our family year after year.

Word: Traduce
Meaning: to harm someone’s reputation by speaking of them in a negative manner
Example: The crooked politician paid a newspaper editor to traduce his rivals.

Word: Traffic
Meaning: vehicles or people moving in an area
Example: Traffic creeped to a halt after a car wreck happened just past the bridge.

Word: Tragedy
Meaning: a disastrous event; especially one involving great loss of life or injury
Example: Having claimed the lives of all passengers; the car accident was a great tragedy.

Word: Tragic
Meaning: extremely sad; often involving death and suffering
Example: Emmett Till’s tragic murder was one of the saddest events in our country’s history.

Word: Trail
Meaning: a path; usually through a countryside or wooded area
Example: Trail guides led the visitors down the beaten path and to the entrance of the deep cave.

Word: Trailblazer
Meaning: the first person or thing to accomplish something groundbreaking or revolutionary
Example: The doctor’s goal is to be a medical trailblazer and discover a universal cure for cancer.

Word: Train
Meaning: to teach or coach
Example: Some workers have been asked to train the newcomers on how to use the machines.

Word: Train
Meaning: to teach a person or animal a particular skill
Example: The animal trainer used treats to train the dog to sit on command.

Word: Trainwreck
Meaning: a disastrous or devastating situation that ends in ruin
Example: This football season was an utter trainwreck and ended disastrously for the losing team.

Word: Traipse
Meaning: a leisurely and generally purposeless walk
Example: Every Sunday the voracious reader loved to traipse down several blocks to every independent bookstore without any intention of actually buying anything.

Word: Trait
Meaning: a critical characteristic of a person’s personality
Example: Honesty is a trait that most parents greatly value in their children; as nothing is more troublesome than someone who lies to their parents.

Word: Traitor
Meaning: someone who betrays trust; alliance; or duty
Example: Judas is a notorious Biblical traitor.

Word: Trajectory
Meaning: a course or route taken
Example: If the missile alters the trajectory of just one of the planets; the two bodies will not collide.

Word: Trammel
Meaning: to restrain or restrict one’s freedom
Example: The parents were careful not to trammel their son’s dreams of being a dancer even though he had no rhythm.

Word: Tramp
Meaning: a heavy-footed walk
Example: Angry children tramp noisily up the stairs; making sure to stomp out their irritation.

Word: Trample
Meaning: to crush; disfigure; maim; etc.; by walking or running over something
Example: The girl walked lightly through the garden; carefully watching her feet so that she didn’t trample the beautiful flowers.

Word: Trance
Meaning: a dazed state where one wanders without active knowledge that they are doing so
Example: The girl was in such a trance that she didn’t even flinch when her friend snapped his fingers in front of her face.

Word: Tranche
Meaning: a portion of something; especially money
Example: A tranche of the Wallstreet stocks was transferred from one stockholder to the other.

Word: Tranquil
Meaning: relaxed; peaceful
Example: Since we were the only ones on the beach; we enjoyed a tranquil day.

Word: Tranquilize
Meaning: the act of drugging or incapacitating in order to calm
Example: The doctors were forced to tranquilize the hysterical woman before she her herself.

Word: Transact
Meaning: the act of completing an action where one or more sides benefit; typically applies to sales
Example: Bank tellers transact withdrawals and deposits daily.

Word: Transaction
Meaning: the act of exchanging something for something else; whether it be an idea; goods; money; labor; or alliances
Example: The cashier asked the customer if she wanted a receipt for her transaction.

Word: Transatlantic
Meaning: something that crosses the Atlantic Ocean
Example: The exchange student was exhilarated as she took her first transatlantic flight from New York to Moscow.

Word: Transcend 
Meaning: to exceed the limits of something
Example: The athlete hoped the increased training would allow him to transcend Olympic records.

Word: Transcendent
Meaning: surpassing the ordinary; exceptional
Example: In order to completely identify with the plot of the science fiction movie; you must be able to consider the idea of transcendent experiences that allow people to enter the minds of others.

Word: Transcendental
Meaning: supernatural or beyond the human experience
Example: Jesus and Buddha are both transcendental heroes whose experiences go past a simply human one.

Word: Transcontinental
Meaning: extending or crossing a continent
Example: The first transcontinental telegraph connected an existing network in the east of the U.S. to a smaller network in California.

Word: Transcribe
Meaning: to change a form of communication into another form
Example: The medical transcriptionist will transcribe the doctor’s notes by typing them into the computer.

Word: Transcript
Meaning: a written or printed copy of material
Example: No one is allowed to view the trial transcript because the file is sealed.

Word: Transcription
Meaning: a written or printed representation of something
Example: You can listen to the audio version of the podcast or wait to read the transcription.

Word: Transect
Meaning: to cut or split crosswise
Example: My daughter will only eat her sandwich if I transect it and slice off the edges.

Word: Transfer
Meaning: to move or relocate something
Example: The banker agreed to transfer the client’s money to a different type of account since he was unhappy with the current fees.

Word: Transference
Meaning: a psychological phenomenon in which an individual redirects emotions and feelings from one person to another
Example: In a transference roleplay; the therapist pretended to be the client’s mother and let her act out her feelings of anger.

Word: Transfigure
Meaning: to fully change or transform into something different than the original form
Example: A group of wizards worked together to transfigure the fiery dragon into a meek mouse.

Word: Transfix
Meaning: to captivate or hypnotize something; making them motionless
Example: The spellbinding songstress was able to transfix the crowd with her captivating singing.

Word: Transfixed
Meaning: so interested; surprised; or afraid that you are unable to move / to pierce with a sharp pointed weapon
Example: As she walked down the aisle; the entire gathering sat transfixed on her.

Word: Transform
Meaning: to alter in form or appearance
Example: A new hairstyle will totally transform your appearance.

Word: Transfusion
Meaning: the process of adding an amount of blood to the body of a person or animal
Example: Although it used to happen when receiving blood; it is very rare to get HIV from a transfusion these days.

Word: Transgress
Meaning: to act in violation of some law
Example: People who transgress the boundaries of social etiquette will be politely turned away at the door.

Word: Transgression
Meaning: the violation of a duty; law; or moral principle
Example: The judge will decide the penalty for my transgression.

Word: Transgressor
Meaning: wrongdoer; offender
Example: Forgiveness of a transgressor who wrongs you is one of the important rules of the Christian faith.

Word: Transient
Meaning: lasting only for a short time; impermanent
Example: The snow is transient and will melt as soon as the sun appears.

Word: Transistor
Meaning: a small device that controls the flow of electricity in radios; computers; televisions; etc.
Example: Passing the electronic signal; the transistor functioned perfectly and helped the energy flow.

Word: Transit
Meaning: the carrying of people; goods; or materials from one place to another
Example: The transit agency works to find cheap transportation for people to take to work.

Word: Transition
Meaning: a change or conversion from one position or phase to a different position or phase
Example: When preschoolers transition into kindergarten; they must modify their learning to adhere to the rules as well as get used to stronger academic expectations.

Word: Transitional
Meaning: belonging or relating to a change
Example: Transitional housing is often needed for people who get out of prison but have no place to go.

Word: Transitory
Meaning: not permanent; temporary
Example: Unfortunately; the homeless people can only stay in the transitory shelter for a short period of time.

Word: Translation
Meaning: the act or product of changing a text; document; speech; etc.; from one language to another
Example: Advanced Russian students were required to perform an on the spot translation of Gogol’s The Overcoat in order to graduate.

Word: Translucent
Meaning: partially transparent
Example: Because Jenna is a proper young lady; she wore a sheath under her translucent wedding dress.

Word: Transmission
Meaning: a message sent through a transmitting device; such as a satellite or radio
Example: The radio transmission came through on our end loud and clear; allowing us to hear the President’s speech.

Word: Transmit
Meaning: to cause something to pass from one person or place to another
Example: We use telephones to transmit our voices from wherever we are to the location of the person we are talking to.

Word: Transmitter
Meaning: equipment that uses electromagnetic waves to carry signals over radio or television
Example: The transmitter is being used to send the XM signal to any nearby FM radio.

Word: Transmogrify
Meaning: to magically transform into a different shape or form
Example: High on pain medicine; the patient thought she saw a nurse transmogrify into a poodle.

Word: Transmundane
Meaning: existing outside the physical world that we can see
Example: Because he believes in transmundane beings; the writer pens stories about galaxies that are out of this world.

Word: Transmute
Meaning: to change or alter appearance or form
Example: After years of therapy; the woman was able to transmute her negative thoughts into positive ones.

Word: Transparency
Meaning: openness; clearness
Example: Media outlets are calling for the president to embrace transparency and be open with his financial documents.

Word: Transparent
Meaning: see-through; clear
Example: Bill could see Jan’s bra through her transparent blouse.

Word: Transpiration
Meaning: the process in which plants absorb water and then give off water vapor through pores in their leaves
Example: Plant roots absorb and release moisture from the ground during transpiration.

Word: Transpire
Meaning: to occur or take place
Example: The police sat in their cruiser and waited for a criminal act to transpire.

Word: Transplant
Meaning: to relocate or move something
Example: The couple decided to transplant themselves in a new city so that they could get a fresh start.

Word: Transpontine
Meaning: situated on the other side of a bridge or ocean
Example: The transpontine city is situated just on the other side of the Golden Gate Bridge.

Word: Transport
Meaning: to use a vehicle to take people or goods from one place or another
Example: We use large ships to transport large amounts of goods and supplies across the ocean; because it is more cost effective than using planes.

Word: Transpose
Meaning: means to reorder or cause (two or more things) to change places with each other
Example: For the student; the most difficult part of dealing with dyslexia was his tendency to transpose numbers that were side by side.

Word: Transubstantiation
Meaning: the process by which the bread and wine of the Eucharist is transformed into the body and blood of Jesus Christ
Example: Some churches do not believe in transubstantiation and argue that bread and wine of the Eucharist is not actually turned into the body or blood of Jesus.

Word: Transverse
Meaning: situated or lying across
Example: Transverse nerve cords run across the body like rungs on a ladder.

Word: Trap
Meaning: to catch or ensnare
Example: Using magic to trap people; the witch would not take the sleeping spell away.

Word: Trapeze
Meaning: a gymnastic or acrobatic apparatus made of a short bar hanging high up in the air from two ropes
Example: Swinging from the trapeze; the acrobat did crowd wowing tricks as she dangled on the bar.

Word: Trapezoid
Meaning: a flat; four-sided shape that has two sides that are parallel and two sides that are not parallel
Example: After kicking the soccer ball into the trapezoid shaped goal; the player and his teammates cheered for joy.

Word: Trappings
Meaning: the outward signs or objects related to a particular situation
Example: The horror movie had all the usual trappings including screaming and blood.

Word: Trauma
Meaning: a deeply distressing experience than can cause someone long term emotional pain
Example: The trauma of living in a concentration camp was a suffering that the survivors couldn’t get over easily.

Word: Traumatic
Meaning: extremely disturbing or upsetting
Example: Traumatic events caused the girl to be afraid of going to sleep without a light on.

Word: Traumatized
Meaning: to cause someone to become extremely upset in a way that causes serious emotional problems
Example: Being robbed at work traumatized the store clerk leaving her too afraid to leave her home.

Word: Travail
Meaning: to work hard or with a great deal of effort
Example: Since Scott was not a very good worker; nobody expected him to volunteer to travail to help the team meet the deadline.

Word: Travel
Meaning: to journey somewhere; though it is typically a great distance or abroad
Example: Because we want to see more of the world on vacation this year; we are going to travel to Europe from our suburban American neighborhood.

Word: Traveler
Meaning: someone who journeys from one place to another; typically over a great distance
Example: The old traveler has been all around the world; from the towering pyramids of Egypt to the great snow fields of Siberia.

Word: Travelogue
Meaning: a telling of the places visited and things experienced by a traveler
Example: The movie we saw was a documentary; a travelogue that showed us all the places the main character had visited throughout his life.

Word: Traverse 
Meaning: to travel a rough path
Example: To get to the highest mountain peak in the world; we will have to traverse a very rocky path.

Word: Travesty
Meaning: a false or distorted representation of something; usually of something serious
Example: It would be a travesty of justice to put an innocent man in jail.

Word: Trawler
Meaning: a ship that is used for trawling; which is fishing by dragging a net across the seabed
Example: The trawler towed a very large net through the water behind it; catching hundreds of fish from the sea floor.

Word: Tray
Meaning: a shallow and flat container with a rim typically used for carrying food
Example: Most school cafeteria’s hand out a tray for you to put your food on; though it is sometimes questionable if they are clean or not.

Word: Treacherous 
Meaning: unsafe
Example: Drivers are asked to stay home and avoid the treacherous icy roads.

Word: Treachery
Meaning: betrayal or deceptive action
Example: Benedict Arnold is infamous for the treachery that he displayed when he turned on the Revolutionary Army during the Revolutionary War.

Word: Treacle
Meaning: mushy or emotional sentimentality
Example: As much as I appreciate all of this treacle; would you please stop crying so we can get back to the task at hand?

Word: Tread
Meaning: to walk; step; or trample with your feet
Example: In an effort to avoid waking her parents; the girl tread lightly through the entryway.

Word: Treason
Meaning: the offense of betraying a nation
Example: When the soldier sold military secrets to a foreign government; he was arrested for the crime of treason.

Word: Treasure
Meaning: to greatly value something
Example: This gift means a lot to me; and I will make sure that I treasure it for as long as I live; no matter how long that may be.

Word: Treat
Meaning: to behave towards someone in a certain manner
Example: You should treat the elderly with care and respect; since they have a lot more wisdom and experience than you.

Word: Treatise
Meaning: a serious book or piece of writing about some subject
Example: I read Josh’s treatise on the Civil War and found it to be very informative.

Word: Treaty
Meaning: a formal agreement between countries
Example: The Treaty of Versailles officially ended World War I and was signed in France in 1919.

Word: Tree
Meaning: a woody perennial plant typically with a single trunk and lateral branches near the top that takes in carbon dioxide and produces oxygen
Example: The tree was struck by lightning; igniting it and starting a forest fire that spread to the other trees in the woods.

Word: Trek
Meaning: a long and usually difficult journey; typically carried out on foot
Example: In order to make it to Grandma’s house; we will have to trek over the mountains and through the woods.

Word: Trellis
Meaning: a framework of solid bars used as a support for unstable objects
Example: Because the sapling is too weak to stand up straight on its own; we planted a trellis made of wooden bars around it to help it stand.

Word: Tremble
Meaning: to shake uncontrollably; usually from fear or excitement
Example: Being terrified of snakes; I could not help but tremble at the sight of a boa constrictor; even behind the glass of the zoo exhibit.

Word: Tremendous
Meaning: massive; huge; or giant in scope
Example: The tsunami that crashed into the coastline was so tremendous that it destroyed half of the entire city; flooding it with water.

Word: Tremor
Meaning: a weak or very slight earthquake
Example: Because we live on a fault line; we feel a weak tremor that rattles the picture frames on our wall every once in a while.

Word: Tremulous
Meaning: shaking or quivering
Example: Her voice was weak and tremulous; but the audience clapped politely when she finished the aria.

Word: Trench
Meaning: a long; narrow hole in the ground; that is usually deep and has a purpose
Example: The car swerved off the road and into a deep trench full of rainwater.

Word: Trenchant
Meaning: sharp or cutting
Example: Marvin’s trenchant wit made him a popular speaker at conservative fundraisers.

Word: Trend
Meaning: something fashionable or popular for a finite period of time
Example: When Starbucks embraced the unicorn food trend with a new rainbow frappucino; they sold out in mere hours.

Word: Trepidation
Meaning: a nervous or fearful feeling
Example: Shaking with trepidation; the young man faced his fear of heights by skydiving.

Word: Trespass
Meaning: to enter someone else's property illegally
Example: Hoping no one would see him trespass; the hunter ignored the sign and headed in to the woods.

Word: Trestle
Meaning: a framework comprised of a horizontal beam and two sloping legs; often used to support a flat surface like a table or a bridge
Example: Most bridges need some sort of support to help them stand; and this bridge has a trestle made of steel in the corner holding it up.

Word: Triad
Meaning: a grouping of three
Example: Adam’s family forms a triad as he is an only child; with no brothers or sisters.

Word: Triage
Meaning: to sort by a particular attribute
Example: The purpose of the automated phone system is to triage calls so they can be routed to the proper customer service agent.

Word: Trial
Meaning: a court hearing held to decide if an accused person is guilty or innocent
Example: Students in the criminal justice course took part in a make believe trial in which some were attorneys and others jurors.

Word: Triangular
Meaning: shaped like a triangle with three sides and three corners
Example: The pizza’s triangular shape had two cheesy sides and one section of crust.

Word: Triathlon
Meaning: an athletic event that includes three separate events (usually running; cycling; and swimming)
Example: The third event of the triathlon was difficult for the athlete since she was already tired from cycling and running.

Word: Tribal
Meaning: relating to an ethnic group of people that live together as a nation (a tribe)
Example: The tribal council held a meeting to see who would be elected as the next chief of the tribe.

Word: Tribe
Meaning: a group of people; usually related to Native Americans
Example: Because few people still speak the dialect of the tribe; the population’s language is considered endangered.

Word: Tribulation 
Meaning: a challenging situation or experience
Example: When creating his multimillion dollar software company; Mark learned from each tribulation he faced.

Word: Tribunal
Meaning: an assembly including one or more judges to conduct judicial business
Example: To discuss the prospect building a park in the subdivision; the neighborhood tribunal met.

Word: Tributary
Meaning: a stream of water that enters into a larger body of water
Example: As it flowed into the river; the tributary provided fresh water for the village.

Word: Tribute
Meaning: a way to honor a person
Example: The concert is a tribute to the men and women of the military who protect our nation.

Word: Trick
Meaning: a cunning scheme intentionally designed to deceive someone
Example: My little sister has always been fond of tricks; constantly plotting schemes she can use to trap us in one of her silly pranks.

Word: Trickery
Meaning: the practice of being deceitful and dishonest
Example: The sly fox continued his trickery; sneaking into the hen house when the farmer wasn’t looking.

Word: Trickle
Meaning: a very thin flow
Example: There was a slow trickle of water from the faucet in the bathroom.

Word: Trickledown
Meaning: refers to situations in which something that starts in the high parts of a system spreads to the lower parts
Example: Because of the trickledown process; some car features that were once only found in high-end vehicles are now standard.

Word: Trifecta
Meaning: a set or combination of three things
Example: The three girls’ voices created a beautiful trifecta over the loudspeaker.

Word: Trifle
Meaning: to handle with disrespect or in a discourteous manner
Example: When the cat catches the mouse; it will trifle with it before ending its life.

Word: Trifling
Meaning: having little value or importance
Example: My time is too valuable to spend on trifling matters that have little worth.

Word: Trigger
Meaning: to initiate something
Example: Anxiety has been known to trigger asthma attacks.

Word: Trilateral
Meaning: involving three groups or countries
Example: The meeting was trilateral between three departments in the company.

Word: Trilogy
Meaning: a group of three things which are related
Example: The first book in the trilogy sets the course for the other two books in the series.

Word: Trim
Meaning: to make something neater by cutting away excess or irregular parts
Example: Rather than mow the lawn; I decided that I would trim unseemly bushes in my neighbor’s yard for a little extra cash.

Word: Trinket
Meaning: a small showy ornament or piece of jewelry
Example: Before returning from vacation; I purchased a cheap trinket for my daughter Robyn.

Word: Trio
Meaning: a group of three people or things
Example: Of the trio; Bruce was the one that rose to fame and eventually broke off from the other two.

Word: Tripod
Meaning: a stand with three legs that is used to support an object; usually a camera
Example: Placing the camera on the tripod; the photographer adjusted the stand to get the perfect shot.

Word: Trisect
Meaning: to divide something into three parts
Example: I decided to trisect the candy bar so that my two friends could share it with me.

Word: Trite
Meaning: unoriginal and lacking in importance
Example: I did not finish the novel because the story’s plot was trite and uninspiring.

Word: Triumph
Meaning: a final success or victory
Example: Surviving brain cancer is Mark’s biggest triumph in life.

Word: Triumphant
Meaning: experiencing a feeling of success
Example: The triumphant graduates could not wait to celebrate their achievements.

Word: Triumvirate
Meaning: a group of three
Example: Our company created a triumvirate structure where Ted; Mark and James are all CEOs.

Word: Trivia
Meaning: quiz game with little-known and unimportant facts
Example: I love to compete in trivia contests because I know so many random facts.

Word: Trivial
Meaning: of little significance or value
Example: Despite having lived what he considered to be a trivial life; George had actually had a tremendous impact on everyone he knew.

Word: Triviality
Meaning: the unimportance and insignificance of something irrelevant
Example: Because of the issue’s triviality; the businessman decided to work on more important matters.

Word: Trivialize
Meaning: to make something seem unimportant
Example: The abused woman tried to trivialize the horrible cruelty.

Word: Trodden
Meaning: heavily walked upon
Example: This road is heavily trodden; being walked by dozens of people every day and trampling the dirt into the ground.

Word: Troglodyte
Meaning: a reclusive individual that shuns society and actively enjoys solitude
Example: The famous writer was a well-known troglodyte who holed up in a cabin for months at a time without a single visitor.

Word: Troika
Meaning: three components that make up a whole; whether it be group; idea; alliance; etc
Example: The Three Musketeers are a famous literary troika.

Word: Trolley
Meaning: a vehicle; usually that resembles a rectangular bus that is powered by electricity and runs on a cable or track
Example: A red electrical trolley loops from downtown Moscow to the university.

Word: Troop
Meaning: a group of individuals that belongs to a larger organization
Example: A troop of UN Peacekeepers were dispatched to the war-torn and devastated areas of Syria.

Word: Trope
Meaning: commonly used technique or idea generally used so often that it becomes expected or a cliche
Example: Love at first sight is an overused romance trope.

Word: Trophic Level
Meaning: the living things that are on the same level in the food chain
Example: Since these two animals were located in the same trophic level; witnesses realized that they were both herbivores.

Word: Trophy
Meaning: an item that symbolizes and commemorates an event or triumph
Example: The Spelling Bee champion proudly displayed his trophy on the fireplace mantle where everyone could see it.

Word: Tropical
Meaning: has attributes of warm climate; greenery; and usually consists of beaches
Example: Snowbirds are seasonal travelers who move to tropical locations during the winter.

Word: Tropism
Meaning: natural talent for
Example: Leonardo da Vinci had a scientific tropism that allowed him to not only excel at drawing perfectly proportioned anatomy but to craft some of the greatest inventions known to man.

Word: Troposphere
Meaning: part of the atmosphere where visible weather changes occur
Example: Meteorologists analyze shifting weather patterns in the troposphere in order to predict the forecast.

Word: Trot out
Meaning: to show someone or something in public to get attention
Example: The attention-seeking cheerleading team will trot out on the field in glittery mini-skirts.

Word: Trot
Meaning: to take on a quick pace
Example: The horse picked up his pace until he moved at a quick trot.

Word: Troth
Meaning: to swear loyalty; fealty; or fidelity
Example: The knights of Camelot pledged their troth to King Arthur.

Word: Troubadour
Meaning: a traveling or local musician/poet that sings of folk legends and history
Example: In Medieval times; royalty often hired a court troubadour to sing their praises in the form of love ballads and bawdy drinking songs.

Word: Trouble
Meaning: difficulty or problem
Example: My grandmother always calls me when she is having trouble working her computer.

Word: Trouble
Meaning: an act or action that causes a disturbance or alteration to a typically calm or normal setting
Example: When people started rioting in the streets; the government knew that trouble was on the horizon.

Word: Troubled
Meaning: to be worried; concerned; or bothered with/by something
Example: The investor was troubled by the plummeting numbers in the stock market.

Word: Troublemaker
Meaning: a person who causes lots of problems and issues
Example: Jessica is an office troublemaker who always causes issues between coworkers at the firm.

Word: Troubleshoot
Meaning: to resolve common issues or problems
Example: The tech tried to troubleshoot the customer’s internet issue over the phone but couldn’t resolve the issue.

Word: Troublesome
Meaning: something that is irritating; difficult; or more hassle than you want to deal with
Example: The most troublesome thing in the world of driving is when everyone stops to look at an accident; slowing down traffic in your lane.

Word: Trough
Meaning: a long and narrow open container used to feed animals
Example: The trough has been filled with hay; so the horses can walk up and eat whenever they want.

Word: Trounce
Meaning: to severely defeat someone
Example: In the contest of strength; the full grown man managed to trounce his teenaged opponent with no effort whatsoever.

Word: Troupe
Meaning: a group of entertainers that tour around with their performance
Example: The acting troupe travels from city to city; putting on at least two plays every time they stop on their tour.

Word: Trousers
Meaning: another word for pants
Example: I need a new pair of trousers because I accidentally tore a hole in my old pair when I fell earlier.

Word: Trousseau
Meaning: the clothes collected by a bride for her marriage
Example: The bride brought an entire wardrobe to the marriage as her trousseau; practically filling the small closet of the man’s home.

Word: Trout
Meaning: a freshwater fish related to the salmon that is often caught for food or sport (Merriam)
Example: The fisherman felt a tug on the line and in reeled in a 10 pound trout.

Word: Trove
Meaning: a collection of things
Example: I hope to find a trove of Easter eggs on the hunt today.

Word: Trow
Meaning: to believe or think
Example: Scientologists trow that humans are immortal and that the body is a vessel.

Word: Trowel
Meaning: to apply or spread something across a flat surface
Example: I used a butter knife to trowel peanut butter across the slice of bread that I need for my sandwich.

Word: Truant
Meaning: one who skips something important
Example: The truant hid in the park to avoid taking his midterm exams.

Word: Truce
Meaning: a time period in which opposing sides agree to stop fighting
Example: Hopefully the truce will last long enough for the leaders to agree to a peace treaty.

Word: Truck
Meaning: a large road vehicle used to carry goods and material
Example: A truck is needed to move the huge pile of rocks to the driveway.

Word: Truck
Meaning: a vehicle used to transport goods; typically with four or more wheels
Example: The happy family hired a moving truck to transport their possessions to their new home.

Word: Truck
Meaning: a large motor vehicle that has a bed and is used to transport things
Example: The back of the truck was filled with dirt before the farmer drove the vehicle back to the ranch.

Word: Truckle
Meaning: to yield or submit in an obedient way
Example: The king expected the servants to truckle; but they refused to bow at his feet.

Word: Truckle
Meaning: to forfeit; submit; give it; or become tame to another’s wishes
Example: No matter how hard he tried to tame the wild lion; she refused to truckle.

Word: Truculence
Meaning: aggressively forceful and hostile behavior
Example: The aggressive man’s truculence caused him to be arrested and jailed for disorderly conduct.

Word: Truculent
Meaning: quick to fight or argue
Example: When my uncle drinks too much; he becomes very truculent and will fight anyone.

Word: Trudge
Meaning: move forward slowly because of exhaustion
Example: Despite three days without food or rest; the weary soldiers continue to trudge over the battlefield.

Word: True-blue
Meaning: someone who is honest; loyal; and genuine
Example: After most of his teammates betrayed him; he knew those who stuck by his side were his true-blue friends.

Word: TRUE
Meaning: accurate; based on fact
Example: The teacher told us that it was true that dinosaurs existed; but I had my doubts.

Word: TRUE
Meaning: real and genuine
Example: Amber’s true hair color is red; but she likes to dye it blonde in the summer.

Word: Truism
Meaning: a frequently heard statement that is evidently rooted in truth
Example: During the annual meeting; the company president was fond of repeating the truism about hard work paying huge dividends.

Word: Truly
Meaning: sincerely
Example: Because she was truly sorry for her crime; the judge let the thief out of jail.

Word: Trumpery
Meaning: something that is showy (looks good) but is really worthless
Example: The coins were trumpery; looking as if they were gold but were actually worthless.

Word: Truncate
Meaning: to reduce the length of an item by clipping it
Example: Although the director loved all of his film footage; he had to truncate the movie so its runtime would be less than forty-five minutes.

Word: Truncheon
Meaning: a stick or baton that is carried as a symbol of order and authority
Example: The video shows a police officer using his truncheon to beat a suspect in the head.

Word: Trust
Meaning: firm belief in the reliability or truth of something or someone
Example: If there is one person I know I can trust to do what is best for me no matter what; it’s my mother.

Word: Trustworthy
Meaning: able to be relied on or trusted
Example: Your best friend is often someone you would consider trustworthy; someone you would share your secrets and success with.

Word: Trusty
Meaning: reliable or trustworthy
Example: It's probably the end of the road for his trusty car with almost 190;000 miles on it.

Word: Truth
Meaning: the facts and reality of a matter
Example: The police are working hard to figure out the truth about the crime and reveal the facts about the case.

Word: Truthful
Meaning: honest; and always telling the truth
Example: I trust Sarah completely because she is a truthful person who would never tell a lie.

Word: Try
Meaning: to attempt an action
Example: Nellie and her sister tried to fly a kite; but the wind wasn’t strong enough to hold it in the air.

Word: Tryst
Meaning: a secret meeting planned for intimate purposes
Example: The lovers meet at a sleazy motel when they want to have a tryst.

Word: Tsunami
Meaning: a long ocean wave caused by an earthquake or a landslide
Example: After the earthquake shook the ocean; a tsunami wave roared toward the coastline.

Word: Tuck
Meaning: to push fold or turn something inward
Example: When he is afraid; the dog will tuck his tail underneath him and hide under the table.

Word: Tug
Meaning: to pull or drag with great effort
Example: The dog would tug on the leash the entire walk; making him very difficult to control.

Word: Tuition
Meaning: the money it costs to take classes at a college; school or university
Example: After being in a dead-end job for several years; I looked into increasing my education but was saddened by the expensive tuition costs.

Word: Tumble
Meaning: to fall down over and over again
Example: We installed a guard rail at the top of the steps to prevent the little boy from taking a tumble down two flights of stairs.

Word: Tumor
Meaning: an abnormal growth of tissue; whether benign or malignant
Example: The malignant tumor spread from the large intestine into the bloodstream.

Word: Tumult
Meaning: confusion or disorder
Example: While the political candidate’s popularity rating continues to fall; his office has declined into a state of tumult.

Word: Tumultuous
Meaning: loud; excited; and emotional
Example: The soldiers returned home to a tumultuous welcome from their friends and family.

Word: Tundra
Meaning: a huge artic biome that is flat and without trees
Example: 1. While trees don't grow in a tundra; certain plants do thrive in this biome.

Word: Tune
Meaning: a melody that one thinks of as music
Example: My favorite tune is a piece of music that is played on the flute; though I have heard it on other instruments as well.

Word: Tunic
Meaning: a garment loosely worn over the torso; with or without sleeves; and of various lengths reaching from the hips to the ankles
Example: Diana’s floral tunic draped loosely over her body.

Word: Turban
Meaning: a man’s headdress made of a long piece of cloth wound around a small cap or the head that is traditionally worn in North Africa or the Middle East
Example: As a follower of the Sikh faith; the man was recognized by his wrapped turban and uncut hair.

Word: Turbid
Meaning: dense with substances or cloudy
Example: I will not drink the turbid water because I cannot see through it.

Word: Turbine
Meaning: an engine that provides power because a wheel or a rotor is continually turning due to pressure from fast moving liquid
Example: The turbine used water and a rotor to power the boat down the mighty Mississippi.

Word: Turbo
Meaning: a fan in the engine of a car or plane that improves its performance
Example: By adding a turbo boost to the engine; the NASCAR driver was able to max out his speed.

Word: Turbulence
Meaning: conflict or confusion
Example: Constant turbulence in the couple’s marriage caused them to file for a divorce.

Word: Turbulent
Meaning: being in a wild or disordered state
Example: Race relations in the town were quite turbulent after the white police officer was not indicted for killing the unarmed minority.

Word: Turgid
Meaning: language that is complex and hard to understand
Example: The middle school student could not understand any of the facts listed in the turgid collegiate essay.

Word: Turkey
Meaning: a large; North American game bird that is bald with red wattles and is served on Holidays such as Thanksgiving and Christmas
Example: The only time my family gets to eat delicious turkey meat is on special occasions.

Word: Turmoil
Meaning: a state of confusion or disorder
Example: The mayor was not reelected to his office because of his inability to bring the city out of financial turmoil.

Word: Turn down
Meaning: to reject or decline something
Example: The candidate decided to turn down the job offer because the pay was much too low to consider.

Word: Turn
Meaning: to rotate or twist
Example: Turn the knob all the way to 350 degrees so that the oven can preheat.

Word: Turnabout
Meaning: a complete reversal of a situation or an opinion
Example: Changing her mind on the issue; Glenda did a turnabout and decided to support her sister’s marriage.

Word: Turnaround
Meaning: a reversal that is seen as an improvement
Example: The struggling franchise made quite a turnaround; winning almost all of their games this season.

Word: Turncoat
Meaning: a traitor who sides with the conflicting side
Example: Benedict Arnold was considered a turncoat because he fought for the Patriots in the American Revolutionary War and then fought for the British.

Word: Turncoat
Meaning: a traitor who betrays one’s party or team to join another group
Example: The turncoat abandoned the Irish military and freely boarded a boat controlled by the enemy camp.

Word: Turnkey
Meaning: related to the provision of a service or product that can be used immediately
Example: General stores are turnkey enterprises; specializing in selling goods that can be used immediately; from clothes to electronics and food.

Word: Turnover
Meaning: the act of replacing an employee with a new employee
Example: The turnover of teachers in the school has been much higher the last few years.

Word: Turnpike
Meaning: a high speed highway where fees are charged
Example: An accident on the turnpike slowed down highway traffic to a creep.

Word: Turophile
Meaning: a person who loves cheese
Example: As a connoisseur of fancy cheese; the turophile enjoyed tasting many different types of the delicious dairy product.

Word: Turpitude
Meaning: a vile or depraved act
Example: In less than an hour; the judge decided to execute the killer for his moral turpitude.

Word: Turret
Meaning: a small tower located at the corner of a much larger building; usually a castle
Example: Locked in the turret; the princess wished she could escape her small tower and see the world.

Word: Turtle
Meaning: a slow-moving reptile who lives on land or water and whose body is protected by a bony; plated shell
Example: It took the slow-moving turtle most of the morning to creep across the road to his pond.

Word: Turtleneck
Meaning: a sweater or shirt with a high turned over collar
Example: This turtleneck sweater is my favorite for cold days because it keeps my neck warm and covered no matter what the temperature is.

Word: Tusk
Meaning: one of a pair of elongated pointed teeth that extend outside the mouth of an animal such as walrus; elephant or wild boar
Example: Elephants wear the tusk down faster than they can grow it.

Word: Tussle
Meaning: to struggle; wrestle; or fight with someone
Example: The children began to tussle over a toy; and the preschool teacher had to step in to break up the fight.

Word: Tutelage
Meaning: the condition of being under someone’s protection; usually a guardian
Example: Under the coach’s tutelage; James became the star of his college’s basketball team.

Word: Tutelary
Meaning: having guardianship or protection of
Example: Although her grandmother died before her birth; she always felt her tutelary presence was guiding her wherever she went.

Word: Tutor
Meaning: a private teacher that typically teaches only one student or a very small group
Example: Because I need special lessons in mathematics; I have a personal tutor that teaches just me and nobody else.

Word: Tutorial
Meaning: a training session or lesson that provides step-by-step instructions on how to do something
Example: By following the Youtube makeup tutorial; Tatiana was able to learn how to put on eyeliner correctly.

Word: Twaddle
Meaning: to talk or write in a way that is foolish or silly
Example: The gossiping teenagers need to find something better to do that twaddle nonsense all day.

Word: Twang
Meaning: a sharp; vibrating tone like that of a plucked string
Example: The sharp twang of the guitar seemed to make the entire room vibrated.

Word: Tweak
Meaning: to adjust something to make it better
Example: Since the chef burned the brownies the last time she made them; she decided to tweak the recipe by only baking them for 20 minutes instead of 30 minutes.

Word: Twilight zone
Meaning: an area where two different ways of life or states of existence meet
Example: When moving from Louisiana to California; the southern girl felt as if she was in a twilight zone.

Word: Twilight
Meaning: at dusk or nightfall
Example: Since the sun had just gone down and the cowboys knew it was twilight; they settled around the campfire for their rest.

Word: Twinge
Meaning: a sudden; sharp localized pain
Example: After being tackled by several 300 pound football players; the quarterback felt a twinge in his ribs that made him think he broke a few bones.

Word: Twinkle
Meaning: to shine and sparkle
Example: After getting her teeth cleaned; the woman’s pearly whites seemed to twinkle and glisten.

Word: Twist
Meaning: to turn something in a spiraling motion
Example: The weak girl struggled to twist the cap off of her soda bottle.

Word: Two
Meaning: the sum of one object plus another
Example: My mother bought me a second apple; so now I have two.

Word:  Twofold 
Meaning: multiplied by two; two reasons
Example: The reasons for the increase in ticket prices are twofold – to increase security and to hire more employees.

Word: Tycoon
Meaning: a person of great wealth or power in a particular industry
Example: The tycoon built his fortune building railroads across the United States.

Word: Type
Meaning: to use a typewriter or keyboard to write out a message using lettered keys
Example: Using the typewriter; the old school secretary pecked out a letter that she needed to type for a week.

Word: Typecast
Meaning: to stereotypically assign an actor or actress the same type of role over and over again
Example: Because she played the fun-loving grandma on several different TV shows; Meryl seemed to be typecast in this role.

Word: Typhoon
Meaning: a type of tropical storm (hurricane) that occurs in the Pacific or Indian Oceans
Example: Typhoon is the name for a hurricane that occurs in the Western Pacific.

Word: Typhus
Meaning: any of various bacterial diseases caused by rickettsial bacteria that is transmitted by lice or fleas and causes a rash; severe fever and headache; and confusion
Example: Scientists think the great plague in 430 B.C. Athens was a typhus outbreak since many who died suffered from severe rashes and headaches.

Word: Typical
Meaning: usual; normal
Example: Today wasn’t a typical workday since our boss actually allowed us to take a break.

Word: Typically
Meaning: usually; In most cases
Example: The company doesn’t typically hire people with no work experience; but decided to give the girl a chance.

Word: Typify
Meaning: to represent what is normal or typical
Example: The smart student seemed to typify the overly bright and gifted group of children.

Word: Tyrannical
Meaning: showing behavior that is unfair and cruel to that one is in power over
Example: The dictator’s tyrannical behavior lasted decades; and he ran his country with an iron fist.

Word: Tyrannize
Meaning: to terrorize or torment
Example: Until someone steps in to help the terrified people; the horrible king will continue to tyrannize his subjects.

Word: Tyranny
Meaning: excessively cruel use of power
Example: My mother divorced my father after enduring twenty years of tyranny.

Word: Tyrant
Meaning: an individual who governs unfairly and brutally
Example: Growing up I considered my stepmother to be a tyrant because she punished me without cause.

Word: Tyro
Meaning: a beginner
Example: Julie is a good violinist; but at 13; she is a tyro and still has a lot to learn.

Word: Ubiquitous
Meaning: existing or being everywhere at the same time
Example: When I was a kid; I thought my parents were ubiquitous because it seemed as if they knew everything I did.

Word: Ubiquity
Meaning: the attribute of being commonplace
Example: The ubiquity of cars in first world countries makes them so common that it’s almost inconceivable for a family to not own a car in those countries.

Word: Ulterior
Meaning: hidden or concealed
Example: Politicians often use religion as a tool to get people to believe them despite their ulterior motives.

Word: Ultimate
Meaning: the best achievable
Example: The scholar’s ultimate goal was to get his research published in a medical journal.

Word: Ultimately
Meaning: finally; in the end
Example: Ultimately; we decided to buy the smaller house that had a lower price tag.

Word: Ultimatum
Meaning: terms that must be agreed upon or else there will be negative consequences
Example: After hearing my wife’s ultimatum about her or the truck; I packed up my belongings and drove the truck out of the driveway.

Word: Ultracrepidarian
Meaning: a person who acts like an expert but rarely knows any real information about the subject
Example: The ultracrepidarian talked about physics as if he were Stephen Hawking himself but had no real knowledge of the subject.

Word: Umbrageous
Meaning: providing shade
Example: Sitting under the umbrageous tree; the overheated workers were thankful for the shade.

Word: Umpire
Meaning: a person who controls play and makes sure that players follow the rules in a sports event
Example: “Strrrrike!” yelled the umpire as the batter took a missed swing at the ball.

Word: Umpteen
Meaning: an extremely large number
Example: I have taken the test umpteen times still haven’t made a passing score.

Word: Unabashed
Meaning: brazen; bold
Example: The woman’s unabashed admirer showed up to her house with a guitar and a song.

Word: Unabated
Meaning: persistent; relentless and refusing to give up
Example: Even after he was turned down three times; the inventor; unabated; refused to give up on his design.

Word: Unable
Meaning: incapable; not able
Example: The principal was unable to attend the meeting and sent two of her teachers instead.

Word: Unacceptable
Meaning: not allowable or welcome
Example: Cursing inside the church is unacceptable and will not be tolerated by the priest.

Word: Unaccountable
Meaning: unexplainable; mysterious
Example: Thinking back over the strange and unaccountable event; the dinner guest wondered how the host made the glass float in midair.

Word: Unadulterated
Meaning: pure; untainted
Example: The unadulterated taste of pepper was strong and pure.

Word: Unaffected
Meaning: not changed or altered
Example: My sister’s home was ruined by the latest flood but my residence was unaffected.

Word: Unaided
Meaning: without help or assistance
Example: The elderly gentleman can no longer walk unaided and depends on a walker to move.

Word: Unalike
Meaning: differing from each other or dissimilar
Example: Although they are twins; the sisters are opposites and couldn’t be more unalike.

Word: Unalloyed
Meaning: completely genuine
Example: My best friend announced her unalloyed happiness for my engagement.

Word: Unalterable
Meaning: permanent; unchangeable
Example: Because of the handmade lace on the side; the dress is unalterable.

Word: Unambiguous
Meaning: expressed in a clear and precise way
Example: Reading the unambiguous article; the editor was glad to have found an author that is clear and concise.

Word: Unanimous 
Meaning: in total agreement or accord
Example: The unanimous consent of all the shareholders was required to approve the merger.

Word: Unapologetic
Meaning: not showing remorse and regret
Example: The criminal was unapologetic and refused to ask forgiveness for his crimes.

Word: Unassailable
Meaning: safe from being overtaken
Example: With a thirty-point lead and only two seconds left in the game; it is certain the home team has an unassailable lead over its rival.

Word: Unassuming
Meaning: not putting on airs; modest
Example: The unassuming actor personally responds to his fan mail.

Word: Unattached
Meaning: not having a committed romantic partner
Example: My mom has been unattached ever since my dad died a few years ago; as she has little desire to reenter a romantic relationship now.

Word: Unattainable
Meaning: impossible to attain or reach
Example: Even though I wanted the nursing job at the local hospital; I knew my qualifications made the job unattainable for me.

Word: Unavailable
Meaning: not available to be accessed; out of stock
Example: My favorite brand of peanut butter is unavailable; so I had to go with the off brand.

Word: Unavoidable
Meaning: required; necessary
Example: Training for the run is unavoidable since my current runtime is thirty seconds over goal.

Word: Unaware
Meaning: having no knowledge of a situation or fact
Example: The neighbors claimed to have been unaware that the shooting victim was a part of a well-known gang.

Word: Unbalanced
Meaning: not even or stable
Example: The worker’s unbalanced schedule caused her to work really hard on the weekends and have almost nothing to do during the week.

Word: Unbearable
Meaning: so unpleasant or painful as to be unendurable
Example: The heat was unbearable; so we went inside.

Word: Unbeaten
Meaning: champion; undefeated
Example: Floyd Mayweather Jr. retired from boxing Unbeaten; with a 49 to 0 record.

Word: Unbecoming
Meaning: not proper or appropriate
Example: My grandmother still insists that pants are unbecoming of a lady going to church.

Word: Unbefitting
Meaning: not suitable or compatible
Example: The tacky looking dress was unbefitting for a royal duchess.

Word: Unbeknownst
Meaning: without an individual’s knowledge
Example: Unbeknownst to Natasha; Kurt saw his mistress three times a week.

Word: Unbelievable
Meaning: incredible; not able to be imagined
Example: Staring at the winning ticket; the man felt it unbelievable that he could be a millionaire.

Word: Unbiased
Meaning: fair; without bias or prejudice
Example: Workers at the voting place were trained to discuss the candidates’ beliefs in an unbiased way.

Word: Unbridled
Meaning: not restrained; uncontrolled
Example: The unbridled stallion was allowed to gallop wherever he pleased.

Word: Uncanny
Meaning: strangely weird
Example: Jeff is an uncanny man who likes to eat raw meat.

Word: Unceasing
Meaning: constant; continuous
Example: The stalker continued his unceasing phone calls until he was eventually arrested for his harassment.

Word: Unceasingly
Meaning: unendingly or constantly
Example: I usually never get a word in during the conversation with Bill since he talks unceasingly about every topic he can think of.

Word: Unceremoniously
Meaning: in an abrupt way that is considered rude
Example: The tow truck driver repossessed the woman’s car unceremoniously; taking the vehicle and refusing to give her any of her items.

Word: Uncertain
Meaning: not sure; doubtful
Example: Still uncertain about where they wanted to go for their honeymoon; the engaged couple decided to research several different islands.

Word: Uncertainty
Meaning: doubt or hesitation
Example: With uncertainty; the young girl slowly opened the door since she was home alone and didn’t know who was knocking.

Word: Unchanged
Meaning: the same as before; not altered in any way
Example: When the time on the hands on the clock remained unchanged for four to six; I knew that it was broken.

Word: Uncharacteristic
Meaning: unusual; abnormal
Example: Disappearing was uncharacteristic for the elderly man; so the police sent out a search party.

Word: Uncharted
Meaning: not surveyed; mapped; or investigated
Example: Ships should not sail in uncharted waters; because they might get lost.

Word: Uncomfortable
Meaning: not at ease or relaxed
Example: An uncomfortable feeling crept over the woman as she walked alone in the dark alley.

Word: Uncompromising
Meaning: steady and unshakable; adamant
Example: The ethical nurse was awarded an excellence honor for her uncompromising commitment to her patients during tough times.

Word: Unconditional
Meaning: having no controls or limits
Example: The mother’s love for her son was unconditional and she loved him no matter what mistakes he made.

Word: Unconducive
Meaning: not favorable or not encouraging
Example: Constant moving around can make a classroom unconducive for taking test.

Word: Unconformity
Meaning: a geological occurrence in which there is erosion of rock and then new sedimentary rock is deposited on top
Example: The geologist explained that an unconformity shows the time during which no sediments were well-kept in an area.

Word: Uncongenial
Meaning: not friendly or welcoming
Example: The woman’s uncongenial dining companions on the cruise ship were rude the entire dinner.

Word: Unconscionable
Meaning: not right or unreasonable
Example: Allowing blind people the right to drive is not only foolish; but it is unconscionable.

Word: Unconscious
Meaning: comatose and unaware of what is going on
Example: I was unconscious during the surgery and didn’t have any idea what had happened until I woke up.

Word: Unconstitutional
Meaning: illegal and unlawful according to America’s Constitution
Example: Stopping the media from publishing truthful articles is unconstitutional since Americans have the right to freedom of speech.

Word: Unconstrained
Meaning: free and not restricted or restrained
Example: Swimming in the pool under the stars; the relaxed woman felt free and unconstrained.

Word: Uncontrollable
Meaning: wild and unable to be tamed or controlled
Example: Lashing out at everyone he is close to; Alex was rarely able to reign in his uncontrollable temper.

Word: Unconventional
Meaning: unusual; eccentric
Example: The gay man and lesbian woman’s unconventional marriage seemed strange to those who didn’t know them personally.

Word: Uncouth
Meaning: having a lack of acceptable manners
Example: While George comes from a very wealthy family; he often behaves in an uncouth manner and acts as though he has no social skills at all.

Word: Uncover
Meaning: to disclose or unearth something that was once hidden
Example: The explorers set out to uncover the location of the Holy Grail; but never found the legendary object.

Word: Unction
Meaning: an anointing for a ceremonial or religious purpose
Example: I hope you can attend my daughter’s baptismal unction.

Word: Unctuous
Meaning: not expressing true feelings; pretending to display true feelings
Example: Find me a politician without an unctuous personality; and I’ll pay you a million bucks!

Word: Undaunted
Meaning: not intimidated or discouraged by a difficulty or danger
Example: Soldiers seemed undaunted by the mission and bravely marched into battle.

Word: Undecided
Meaning: unsure; In doubt
Example: The senior was undecided on his major and needed more time to think about what career path he would choose.

Word: Undefeated
Meaning: having never suffered a defeat or a loss
Example: Filipe’s team is undefeated and hasn’t lost a single football game all year.

Word: Undefined
Meaning: unclear; vague
Example: The rules were undefined; leaving many employees to break them without even knowing.

Word: Undeniable
Meaning: clearly true; a fact that can’t be denied
Example: The young artist has an undeniable talent for painting that is recognized by everyone at his school.

Word: Undeniably
Meaning: emphasizing that something is clearly true and can’t be denied
Example: Data shows that our school is undeniably the best in the district.

Word: Under the weather
Meaning: used to describe being sick or overall feeling less than optimal
Example: I was feeling a bit under the weather; so I didn’t bother eating dinner that night with my sour stomach taken into account.

Word: Underbelly
Meaning: the underpart of an animal or object
Example: Most of the toad’s body is rough and bumpy; but his underbelly is flat and smooth.

Word: Underbrush
Meaning: shrubs; bushes; or small trees growing beneath large trees
Example: The thick underbrush covered the old tombstone; leaving it barely visible beneath the shrubs.

Word: Undercurrent
Meaning: a current of water moving below the surface
Example: Although the river appears calm on top; a strong undercurrent under the water’s surface can drown even the most skilled swimmer.

Word: Underdog
Meaning: a competitor that is unlikely to win
Example: The underdog team’s 0-10 record makes them an unlikely winner of this week’s game.

Word: Underestimate
Meaning: to say that something is worth less than it really is
Example: The man made a mistake when he chose to underestimate the skill of the other player.

Word: Underfoot
Meaning: something positioned under one’s feet
Example: As the boys ran through the woods; the only thing you could hear was laughing and the crunching of the leaves underfoot.

Word: Undergird
Meaning: to support or strengthen something
Example: Tess looked to her best friend to undergird her decisions and offer moral support during hard times.

Word: Undergo
Meaning: to experience; go through
Example: She had to undergo anesthesia for her operation.

Word: Undergrowth
Meaning: plants; sprouts and bushes that develop beneath the primary taller foliage in a woodland
Example: While the trees hovered overhead; only the hikers walking on the floor of the Amazon Rainforest could observe the undergrowth growing close to the ground.

Word: Underlie
Meaning: to trigger; motivate
Example: I don’t understand all of the principles that underlie how a radio works; but I know a few things about sound waves.

Word: Underline
Meaning: to emphasize something written by marking a line underneath it
Example: Using a highlighter; the student was able to underline the study material she found most important.

Word: Underlying
Meaning: triggering or motivating
Example: The underlying cause for most lung cancer is smoking.

Word: Undermine
Meaning: to weaken; hinder; sabotage
Example: Chloe hoped that her allergies were not going to undermine her ability to perform in the recital.

Word: Underneath
Meaning: situated directly below
Example: The titanic was buried underneath the ocean’s surface for several decades.

Word: Underpaid
Meaning: not paid enough money for the amount or type of work that is done
Example: Cruise ship employees are extremely underpaid and have low salaries that would shock American workers.

Word: Underpinning
Meaning: a solid level of foundation laid below a building to support it
Example: The construction team added underpinning at the bottom of the trailer to shelter the mobile home’s pipes from cold weather.

Word: Underscore
Meaning: to highlight
Example: When the teacher reviewed the essay with her student; she went out of her way to underscore the paper’s best features.

Word: Understand
Meaning: to know the meaning of the information you are hearing or seeing
Example: Because she doesn’t speak English; the Chinese tourist didn’t understand what the cab driver was saying.

Word: Understandable
Meaning: something that is comprehensible; or able to be understood
Example: Because I am very good at math; the complicated nature of calculus is still understandable to me; even though it is not to my classmates.

Word: Understandably
Meaning: reasonably so; as expected
Example: The cancer patient is understandably weak after many weeks of treatment.

Word: Understanding
Meaning: the ability to comprehend and grasp something
Example: Mr. Dean’s deep understanding of marketing helped him turn his business into an overnight success.

Word: Understatement
Meaning: presenting something as being smaller or worse than it actually is
Example: Saying he had gained a little weight was an understatement since he had put on thirty just last month.

Word: Undertake
Meaning: to commit oneself to an obligation
Example: Choosing to undertake the obligation of raising foster children was not a decision the woman took lightly.

Word: Undertaking
Meaning: a task that is taken on
Example: Getting a PhD while working fulltime is a huge undertaking; even for the most dedicated student.

Word: Undertone
Meaning: a quality or feeling that is gentle or subdued
Example: When dying my hair; I have my stylist add a slight undertone of red to give it a different look.

Word: Undertow
Meaning: an underlying mood or feeling that is present just below the surface
Example: An undertow of grief swept over the widow as she laid her husband to rest.

Word: Undervalue
Meaning: to consider something to have little value or worth than it really has
Example: The group of workers tends to undervalue the intern’s contributions even though he adds a lot of value to the project.

Word: Underway
Meaning: something started and is ongoing
Example: With the construction of the road underway; it was only a matter of a few weeks before people could drive on it.

Word: Underwent
Meaning: experienced or went through
Example: After he underwent the risky surgery; the runner wasn’t able to exercise for a while.

Word: Undesirability
Meaning: the quality of being unwanted or desired
Example: The product’s undesirability caused it to sit on the shelf week after week.

Word: Undeterred
Meaning: continuing to do something even in the face of obstacles or setbacks
Example: Undeterred by the evidence stacked against his client; the attorney continued to look evidence pointing to the real killer.

Word: Undiminished
Meaning: not lessened; not made weaker
Example: Trees in front of the window need to be cut back so that the view of the lake is undiminished.

Word: Undisputed
Meaning: certain; definite
Example: The vote count was undisputed until several people came forward saying the machines had been rigged.

Word: Undisputed
Meaning: not challenged or disagreed upon
Example: The smart student was the undisputed winner of the spelling bee after putting everyone out in the first round.

Word: Undistinguished
Meaning: ordinary; unremarkable
Example: Sometimes the celebrity wished for an ordinary and undistinguished life where he wasn’t followed around constantly.

Word: Undo
Meaning: to reserve or cancel
Example: I tried to undo my typing mistake; but couldn’t get it to reverse.

Word: Undoing
Meaning: downfall; defeat
Example: It seems that complaining about her boss led to Megan’s undoing since she was fired a day after she made those negative comments.

Word: Undone
Meaning: ruined; destroyed
Example: The Clippers hope of a championship was undone by their latest loss.

Word: Undoubtedly
Meaning: without any doubt
Example: Undoubtedly; I have plans to attend my only daughter’s high school graduation.

Word: Undue
Meaning: at a level that is extreme; not needed
Example: The daredevil likes to take undue risks and keeps himself in trouble.

Word: Undulate
Meaning: move with a smooth wavelike motion
Example: The dancers’ movements were arranged so that they seemed to undulate like dolphins with the music.

Word: Unduly
Meaning: done excessively; overly or out of proportion
Example: The teenage girl is unduly dependent on her mother and can’t even go to the bathroom by herself.

Word: Unearth
Meaning: to uncover or discover
Example: At an estate sale; I was able to unearth some dresses from the 1920s that had been hidden in an old trunk.

Word: Unease
Meaning: a sense of anxiety or nervousness
Example: I had a sense of unease as I traveled through the dark forest; and every noise made wary of what could be lying I wait.

Word: Uneasy
Meaning: nervous; worried or overly anxious
Example: I always feel uneasy when I am in a dark building alone.

Word: Unemployment
Meaning: being without a job
Example: Unemployment rates have gone up ever since the Nike company took their factory jobs out of the area.

Word: Unencumbered
Meaning: free of to move forward or advance
Example: Because she had her official transcripts; the woman was unencumbered to move on to any college she wanted.

Word: Unequal
Meaning: imbalanced or uneven
Example: Unequal leg lengths on desks can cause them to wobble around.

Word: Unequivocal 
Meaning: unquestionably clear
Example: Since we raised over a million dollars for our charity; we considered the fundraiser to be an unequivocal success.

Word: Unerring
Meaning: correct; unmistaken
Example: The accountant had an unerring for spotting mistakes in bank statements.

Word: Unethical
Meaning: not having morals or honorable principles
Example: Unethical office practices caused the bad doctor to lose his job at the hospital.

Word: Uneven
Meaning: not balanced or symmetrical
Example: Because the table legs were uneven; it rocked back and forth anytime something was placed on it.

Word: Uneventful
Meaning: boring; ordinary
Example: My uneventful weekend was filled with nothing but yawns and the flipping of channels on the T.V.

Word: Unfair
Meaning: wrong; unjust
Example: The store was unfair with its pricing and raised the cost of water and bread during the flood.

Word: Unfasten
Meaning: to open; undo; or disconnect the tie of something
Example: The toddler was able to unfasten her seatbelt and climb out of her car seat when her mom wasn’t looking.

Word: Unfathomable
Meaning: impossible to comprehend or understand
Example: After five hours; we still could not figure out the unfathomable riddle.

Word: Unfavorable
Meaning: poor or bad
Example: The odds of us being able to go to the ballgame are unfavorable since the weatherman is calling for heavy rain.

Word: Unfazed
Meaning: not bothered or affected in any way
Example: Laidback Larry remained calm and seemed completely unfazed when the robbers entered his shop.

Word: Unfeasible
Meaning: impractical; not realistic
Example: Paying for their son’s college seemed unfeasible; so they looked for another way to get funding.

Word: Unfeigned
Meaning: real; not pretense
Example: Because the woman truly loved her husband; her sorrow was unfeigned during the funeral.

Word: Unfettered 
Meaning: not confined or restrained
Example: Once the bird was unfettered and out of the cage; it flew up into the sky.

Word: Unfit
Meaning: not qualified or suited for a specific purpose
Example: Because he was ruled unfit for the position; the police officer was relieved of his duties.

Word: Unflagging
Meaning: tireless and persistent
Example: The persistent reporter was unflagging and refused to give up on the story.

Word: Unflappable
Meaning: clear headed and serene during a catastrophe
Example: When a deadly tornado raced across town; many residents panicked but Miles remained unflappable and calmly lead his neighbors to shelter.

Word: Unfledged
Meaning: inexperienced; naïve
Example: The unfledged nurse had very little experience in hospice care.

Word: Unflinching
Meaning: unwavering even in difficult times
Example: The frightened dog’s unflinching gaze never left my face.

Word: Unfold
Meaning: to develop or progress
Example: Watching the disaster unfold on television; the onlookers couldn’t believe how quickly the storm had grown.

Word: Unforeseen
Meaning: unexpected; sudden
Example: An unforeseen storm approached and surprised the weathermen who had not called for rain.

Word: Unfortunate
Meaning: used to describe an unlucky or ill-time situation or person
Example: The unfortunate woman seemed jinxed as she happened to step in front of the window right when a car ploughed through it.

Word: Unfortunately
Meaning: used to expresses regret before giving bad news
Example: Unfortunately; there are no more tickets for the movie we want to see.

Word: Ungainly
Meaning: used to describe a person or movement that is clumsy or awkward
Example: Penguins are ungainly on land; always waddling around awkwardly on the ice.

Word: Ungrateful
Meaning: not grateful; not expressing gratitude
Example: The man left a single dollar to his ungrateful son in his will.

Word: Unguent
Meaning: a greasy salve that is used to heal wounds
Example: Rubbing the unguent across the patient’s wound; the nurse hoped the salve would speed up the healing.

Word: Unhallowed
Meaning: unholy
Example: Unhallowed talk is not allowed in the holy sanctuary.

Word: Unhappy
Meaning: displeased; upset
Example: The couple’s unhappy marriage led to heated arguments and a divorce.

Word: Unheeded
Meaning: ignored or not paid attention to
Example: The doctor’s unheeded warnings about the dangers of smoking seemed to go in one ear and out the other.

Word: Unhinged
Meaning: deranged; emotionally or mentally disturbed
Example: Ever since her son died; the distraught woman has been emotionally unhinged.

Word: Unhurt
Meaning: not hurt; injured; or damaged in any way
Example: Although the toddler was unhurt; the fall down the stairs scared his parents.

Word: Unicameral
Meaning: a government that has only one legislative house or chamber as opposed to two
Example: Nebraska is the only U.S. state with a unicameral legislature; meaning it doesn’t have a separate house and senate.

Word: Unicellular
Meaning: an organism (such as protozoa; some algae or spores) that are made of only one cell
Example: A simple creature that has only one cell with no nucleus is called unicellular.

Word: Unicorn
Meaning: a mythical creature that resembles a horse and has one horn in the center of its head
Example: The horse-like unicorn is said to be the holder of all truth that can pierce the heart of a liar with its horn.

Word: Unicycle
Meaning: a bicycle with only one wheel
Example: Riding on a unicycle; the circus clown did tricks on its one wheel.

Word: Unidirectional
Meaning: operating or moving in one direction
Example: With the unidirectional model; all the gears turn in the same direction.

Word: Unification
Meaning: merger or union of more than one thing
Example: Unification of the school system means that students on both sides of town will now go to the same school.

Word: Unified
Meaning: made into one
Example: The couple made a unified decision to buy the house they both liked the best.

Word: Unifoliate
Meaning: having only one; compound leaf
Example: Because the plant’s leaf was single; it is described as unifoliate.

Word: Uniform
Meaning: identical clothing worn by people of the same workplace; organization; or school
Example: The student wished she could ditch school uniform and show her unique clothing style.

Word: Uniformity
Meaning: the state of overall sameness or being identical in every way
Example: Uniformity between the twins’ clothes made it to where even their own parents couldn’t tell them apart.

Word: Unify
Meaning: to unite things or make pieces whole
Example: Giving a speech about how important it is for all races to work together; MLK was able to unify the groups.

Word: Unilateral
Meaning: performed only by one side
Example: Since the legislators were slow to act on the issue; the president used his executive powers to make a unilateral solution.

Word: Unimaginable
Meaning: something that is difficult to believe
Example: After the devastating storm left the area; people were left with unimaginable damage.

Word: Unimpeachable
Meaning: completely trustworthy and reliable
Example: Most of the voters saw the candidate as unimpeachable and completely trusted his every word.

Word: Unimpeded
Meaning: free of any restrictions or obstacles
Example: After getting a permit from the city; the unimpeded workers were free to build the home.

Word: Unimportant
Meaning: trivial and of no great concern
Example: The janitor’s job might seem unimportant; but the school could not function without this essential position.

Word: Uninhabitable
Meaning: not able to be lived in or on
Example: Because it is near a nuclear test site; the island is now uninhabitable by people.

Word: Uninhabited
Meaning: having no people living there
Example: Jaco Island is uninhabited because the locals think it is sacred land that no one should live on.

Word: Uninhibited
Meaning: outgoing; not reserved
Example: The camp counselor encouraged uninhibited participation and wanted the campers to be spontaneous.

Word: Uninitiated
Meaning: without specific knowledge or experience
Example: The uninitiated students had trouble understanding the advanced concepts of physics.

Word: Unintelligible
Meaning: making no sense; not understandable
Example: The babbling baby let out an unintelligible wail as she toddled down the hallway.

Word: Unintended
Meaning: accidental; not intentional
Example: Testifying in court caused an unintended consequence to the salesman’s reputation.

Word: Uninterested
Meaning: not concerned; indifferent
Example: Although she acts uninterested; the teenager really does enjoy spending time with her younger sister.

Word: Union
Meaning: a marriage
Example: The elderly couple’s union had lasted for over fifty years.

Word: Unique 
Meaning: without match; distinct
Example: Kate’s unique hairstyle captured everyone’s attention.

Word: Unison
Meaning: the condition of being in agreement or occurring at the same time
Example: Because the singers sung in unison; it sounded like only one person was performing.

Word: Unit
Meaning: one part of component
Example: The complex has over sixty apartments; but only one unit is available to rent this month.

Word: Unitary
Meaning: relating to one single unit
Example: Those unitary officers are the one allowed to stop drivers in this area.

Word: Unite
Meaning: to join more than one thing together
Example: If we are to win the war; our soldiers must unite and face the enemy.

Word: United
Meaning: connected together
Example: The United States are separate but connected by a single; federal government.

Word: Unity
Meaning: being in harmony or full agreement
Example: During the civil rights era; protestors called for unity and peace in which blacks and whites could live together.

Word: Universal
Meaning: relating to everyone in the world
Example: The universal remote is said to work for any kind of television set.

Word: Universe
Meaning: the world; earth.
Example: Many predicted the end of the universe in 1999; but the world kept on spinning.

Word: University
Meaning: a college or academic institution
Example: Professors at the university teach many different courses including biology and world geography.

Word: Unjust
Meaning: not fair; just or right
Example: He believed the sentence was unjust and planned to appeal.

Word: Unkempt
Meaning: not clean or tidy
Example: An unkempt appearance was the least of the homeless man’s worries.

Word: Unkind
Meaning: mean; cruel
Example: Girls on the playground often say cruel and unkind things to those they see as weak.

Word: Unknown
Meaning: something that is still a mystery or uncertain
Example: An unknown substance was found on the bottom of the scientist’s fossil discovery.

Word: Unleash
Meaning: to set free from a restraint
Example: After I went to unleash the dog who had been chained to his cage for years; the dog attacked the first person it saw and ran away.

Word: Unless
Meaning: used to show an exception
Example: Unless you turn in your homework; you will not pass this course.

Word: Unlike
Meaning: different from; dissimilar
Example: Unlike her glamorous mother; the tomboy preferred tennis shoes over heels.

Word: Unlikely
Meaning: not very likely to happen; questionable
Example: It is very unlikely that I will win the lotto; but I still like to play.

Word: Unload
Meaning: to unpack or drop off
Example: Movers helped me unload my furniture and even aided me in putting the beds back together.

Word: Unlucky
Meaning: having or bringing bad luck or fortune
Example: Friday the 13th is said to be an unlucky day that brings bad fortune.

Word: Unmarred
Meaning: free from blemishes or stains
Example: Babe Ruth’s ball was surprisingly unmarred; having almost no marks or blemishes.

Word: Unmentionable
Meaning: forbidden or taboo
Example: After my father left my mother; his name was unmentionable in our home.

Word: Unmistakable
Meaning: unique; easily recognizable
Example: The smell of rotting flesh is unmistakable and can even be recognized by those who have never been around a dead body before.

Word: Unmitigated
Meaning: in its entirety; complete
Example: Since we raised over a million dollars during the telethon; we considered the fundraiser to be an unmitigated success.

Word: Unmoved
Meaning: not affected by emotion or other influence
Example: The toddler threw a fit and cried for the toy; but his mother was unmoved by his tantrum.

Word: Unnatural
Meaning: abnormal; strange
Example: The peculiar woman’s bright orange hair looked so unnatural.

Word: Unnecessary
Meaning: something that is not needed
Example: Checking on her baby all through the night was unnecessary; but the woman felt better if she did it anyway.

Word: Unnerve
Meaning: to make someone lose confidence; to discourage
Example: In an effort to unnerve his foe; the politician brought up some of the less honorable things he had done in the past during their debate.

Word: Unnerving
Meaning: causing fear; anxiety; or loss of courage
Example: As her voice trembled and hands shook; the speaker realized just how unnerving it can be to talk to such a large crowd.

Word: Unnoticed
Meaning: ignored or unseen
Example: The hunter wore clothes that would help him blend into the woods and go unnoticed by the animals.

Word: Unobserved
Meaning: not seen; overlooked
Example: The robbers went unobserved through the forest; never being spotted by the frantic search party.

Word: Unobtrusive
Meaning: not obvious
Example: The reclusive man wanted to be buried in an unobtrusive area of the cemetery so people would not walk around his grave.

Word: Unofficial
Meaning: not for sure or officially confirmed by the organization in charge
Example: It’s still unofficial; but I am pretty sure the company chose me for the job.

Word: Unorthodox 
Meaning: nontraditional
Example: Not wearing the school uniform in the Christian school is viewed as unorthodox behavior.

Word: Unpalatable 
Meaning: unpleasant to the taste
Example: Forgetting the sugar caused the baker to create a fine-looking but unpalatable cake.

Word: Unparalleled 
Meaning: without comparison
Example: The hotel is the city's best because it offers unparalleled services not provided by other area hotels.

Word: Unperceived
Meaning: not noticed or recognized by the senses (sight; smell; taste; touch; hearing.)
Example: The smell of the fire blazing through their home went unperceived by the sleeping family.

Word: Unperturbed
Meaning: not concerned; worried; or disturbed
Example: The unperturbed husband did not seem to care about his cheating wife or her string of affairs.

Word: Unpleasant
Meaning: unsavory; distasteful; or disgusting
Example: The unpleasant smell of rotten eggs crept out of the trash and hit my nose like a ton of bricks.

Word: Unpopular
Meaning: disliked or not accepted by most people
Example: Unpopular at school; the shy and lonely girl; didn’t have any friends to sit with at lunch.

Word: Unprecedented
Meaning: previously never experienced or seen
Example: Before the storm; there was an unprecedented demand for food supplies that left many stores empty.

Word: Unpredictable
Meaning: describes something that is uncertain and not able to be predicted or foretold
Example: The unpredictable weather was sunny one day and rainy the next.

Word: Unprepossessing
Meaning: looking plain or ordinary
Example: The unprepossessing bookshelf looked like any other bookstand; giving no hint of what lay behind its novels.

Word: Unpretentious
Meaning: not attempting to impress others with intelligence; money; style; importance; etc; modest
Example: The girl next door portrayed herself in an unpretentious way so that she was beautiful without striving for attention.

Word: Unprincipled 
Meaning: lacking a moral code
Example: The unprincipled banker failed to handle the transactions ethically.

Word: Unprofessional
Meaning: not showing behavior that is expected or standard in a particular setting
Example: After continuing his inappropriate jokes and sexual harrassment; the store manager was fired for his unprofessional behavior.

Word: Unpromising
Meaning: lackluster and unlikely to gain success
Example: Her hopes of graduating were unpromising after she failed her final exams.

Word: Unpropitious
Meaning: not favorable of likely to produce a good result
Example: The candidate’s unpropitious speak is unlikely to win him any votes.

Word: Unproven
Meaning: not proved
Example: Your alien abduction claim is unproven and seems extremely unlikely.

Word: Unpunctual
Meaning: not happening or doing something on time
Example: Unpunctual guests were not allowed to enter after arriving at the event two hours late.

Word: Unquestionably
Meaning: certain; not able to be disputed
Example: The doctor will unquestionably perform the surgery; the only thing in question is the date.

Word: Unravel
Meaning: to cause something to separate or come apart
Example: The tassels on the end of the rug have started to unravel and will need to be replaced.

Word: Unreal
Meaning: unbelievable; incredible
Example: Winning the lottery is an unreal experience that most will only dream of.

Word: Unreasonable
Meaning: extreme or excessive
Example: The costs to rent a car in the city are unreasonable and make buying one seem cheaper.

Word: Unredressed
Meaning: refers to a wrong or injustice that has not been righted
Example: The girl’s unredressed murder still bothers her family since the killer has never been caught.

Word: Unrelenting
Meaning: refusing to yield or compromise
Example: The unrelenting storm continued to destroy the area and seemed as if it would never end.

Word: Unreliable
Meaning: not able to be trusted or depended on
Example: Since Ms. Watson proved she was unreliable to do her job; I would never call on her when I needed a substitute.

Word: Unremitting
Meaning: continuing without any type of interruption or decrease in intensity
Example: Jim and Edith could not agree upon a divorce settlement because of their unremitting anger towards each other.

Word: Unrepentant
Meaning: showing no regret for one has done wrong
Example: Even after being sentenced for his crimes; the smug kidnapper was unrepentant.

Word: Unrequited
Meaning: not given back
Example: I started to cry when I learned my love was unrequited.

Word: Unrest
Meaning: a state of uneasiness; restlessness; or agitation
Example: Unrest in the country began to grow after the leader began to censor what the newspapers could publish.

Word: Unruffled
Meaning: composed; self-controlled
Example: Even when the children won’t listen to her; the calm teacher remains composed and unruffled.

Word: Unruly
Meaning: disruptive behavior that is wild and out of control
Example: Police were sent to stop the unruly drunks from throwing bottles at cars passing by.

Word: Unsafe
Meaning: dangerous; risky
Example: Moving into the unsafe neighborhood required the renters to get both a gun and a security system.

Word: Unsatisfactory
Meaning: not satisfying or good enough
Example: An unsatisfactory number of people signed up for the play so it had to be cancelled.

Word: Unsatisfied
Meaning: not pleased or happy with something
Example: The editor was unsatisfied with the writer’s work and asked her to make several changes.

Word: Unsavory
Meaning: unpleasant to smell or taste
Example: Catching a whiff of the unsavory smell; Hannah quickly remembered that she had forgotten to take out the trash before leaving for vacation.

Word: Unscathed
Meaning: untouched or not damaged
Example: Despite the vase’s tumble from the shelf; it is unscathed.

Word: Unscrupulous
Meaning: unconcerned about doing what is right
Example: The unscrupulous teacher offered to raise her student’s grade if he gave her one hundred dollars.

Word: Unseemly 
Meaning: not in good taste
Example: William acted in an unseemly manner when he wore his pajamas to his mother’s funeral.

Word: Unseen
Meaning: hidden or out of sight
Example: Waldo remained unseen in the picture until one of the kids finally spotted him.

Word: Unselfish
Meaning: generous and willing to put other needs or wants before one’s own
Example: The kidney donor’s unselfish gift helped the sick man stay alive for several more years.

Word: Unsheathed
Meaning: pulled a knife or sword out from its covering
Example: The warrior unsheathed the blade; raised it above his head and plunged it towards the enemy.

Word: Unsightly
Meaning: ugly; hideous
Example: Cinderella’s unsightly stepsisters were so ugly that their own reflections scared them.

Word: Unsolicited
Meaning: not welcome or invited
Example: The new mother wished she could stop family members from giving unsolicited advice on how to care for her baby.

Word: Unsophisticated
Meaning: basic; not complicated or highly developed
Example: The unsophisticated factory version of the vehicle sells for a much lower price than one purchased with all the bells and whistles.

Word: Unspeakable
Meaning: to horrific or horrible to be expressed in words
Example: The murders suspect was arrested for his unspeakable crimes; and the jury will soon hear about the horrible things he did.

Word: Unstable
Meaning: not balanced or steady
Example: The unstable chair crashed to the floor when the heavy farmer leaned back in it.

Word: Unstable
Meaning: unsteady or wobbly
Example: After years of wear and tear; the rocky table finally collapsed onto the floor.

Word: Unstinting
Meaning: generously giving
Example: The man showed his unstinting support of the business by writing several checks during hard times.

Word: Unsubstantial
Meaning: lacking firmness or strength
Example: It wasn’t until he fell from the cliff that the rock climber realized his unsubstantial rope was too thin for the climb.

Word: Unsubstantiated
Meaning: not supported by evidence or proof
Example: His unsubstantiated claim of being related to royalty could not be taken seriously; as he had no proof to support it.

Word: Unsullied
Meaning: untainted; pure
Example: The groom was happy to discover his wife was an unsullied virgin on their wedding night.

Word: Unsung
Meaning: not praised or celebrated
Example: An unsung champion; the nameless soldier was never even honored for his heroic acts.

Word: Unsure
Meaning: not certain; having doubts about a situation
Example: Because she was unsure of the answer; the puzzled girl didn’t raise her hand in class.

Word: Unsurpassed
Meaning: unmatched or better than any other
Example: The chef’s culinary skill was unsurpassed by any of the mediocre cooks in the kitchen.

Word: Unsuspecting
Meaning: being naïve and unaware; especially of the presence of danger
Example: The unsuspecting driver never expected to be carjacked in the middle of a busy roadway.

Word: Unsustainable
Meaning: not able to be maintained for long periods of time
Example: Although Tremaine is able to work 16 hour days right now; this kind of work schedule is unsustainable for long-term.

Word: Unsympathetic
Meaning: uncaring and unwilling to show compassion to others
Example: Cold and unsympathetic; Carl was selfish and only cared about his own problems.

Word: Untenable
Meaning: not capable of being supported or maintained
Example: The losing debate team had an untenable argument.

Word: Untenanted
Meaning: describes a house or room that has no one living in it (vacant)
Example: Because the home is untenanted; the landlord has plenty of time to fix up the vacant property.

Word: Untidy
Meaning: messy and unorganized
Example: A maid is needed to help the clean the untidy home.

Word: Until
Meaning: before (a specified time)
Example: I cannot go home from the hospital until my doctor gives the okay.

Word: Untimely
Meaning: taking place at an unsuitable time
Example: The president's untimely death has thrown the country into chaos.

Word: Unto
Meaning: an old form of the word “to”
Example: Do unto others as you would like them to do unto you.

Word: Untoward 
Meaning: inappropriate
Example: Janice ignored the holiness of her environment and behaved in an untoward manner in church.

Word: Untrammeled
Meaning: free; not limited or restricted
Example: The captured lion longed for the days when he lived untrammeled in the wide-open grasslands.

Word: Untrue
Meaning: false; wrong
Example: The rumor was untrue; but a lot of people believed the lie.

Word: Unusable
Meaning: broken or unable to be used
Example: Because it is unusable; the chef decided to throw the broken mixer into the trash can.

Word: Unused
Meaning: something new that has not been used before
Example: Please place any unused towels back on the rack for the next customer.

Word: Unusual
Meaning: rare or uncommon
Example: It isn’t unusual for the employee to take off from work since she likes to stay home at least once a week.

Word: Unusually
Meaning: uncommonly; rarely happening
Example: Unusually hot weather meant that there was swimming but no snow in November.

Word: Unutterable
Meaning: to intense or horrible to be described with words
Example: The man lashed out in an unutterable rage that scared everyone in the parking lot.

Word: Unvanquished
Meaning: not beaten or defeated
Example: Athens agreed to leave the city unvanquished as long as Sparta agreed not to attack again.

Word: Unveil
Meaning: to reveal or show something
Example: Even when the children won’t listen to her; the calm teacher remains composed and unruffled.

Word: Unveiled
Meaning: revealed or showed something
Example: Eli Whitney unveiled a special machine to the crowd that would change the way that cotton was processed.

Word: Unwarranted
Meaning: not deserved or justified
Example: Although the punishment seems unwarranted; the mother has the right to discipline her child as she sees fit.

Word: Unwary
Meaning: not cautious or aware of danger
Example: Although he should have been afraid of the wolf; the third pig seemed unwary.

Word: Unwavering
Meaning: never doubted; always steady and on course
Example: The runner was unwavering on his decision to run a marathon.

Word: Unwieldy
Meaning: hard to relocate because of its size
Example: The young boy found it difficult to hold the unwieldy ball because of its huge size.

Word: Unwind
Meaning: to relax and let go of stress
Example: After a long day at work; the waitress needed to put her feet up and unwind.

Word: Unwise
Meaning: foolish; not smart
Example: Even though she was book smart; the foolish girl continued to make unwise money decisions.

Word: Unwitting
Meaning: ignorant or unaware
Example: The unwitting buyer has no clue what her interest rate is or how long she will have to pay on the loan.

Word: Unwittingly
Meaning: ignorantly or in a way that shows one is unaware
Example: Not realizing she was sick; the passenger unwittingly spread her cold to the man sitting next to her.

Word: Unwonted
Meaning: something not seen often; not ordinary
Example: Since Bill rarely came to church; even the priest was shocked by his unwonted appearance at the service.

Word: Unworthy
Meaning: not fit or deserving
Example: The author is unworthy of the award because she copied her book from another writer’s ideas.

Word: Unwritten
Meaning: not recorded in writing
Example: Because the oral business agreement was unwritten; there was no paper to prove it existed.

Word: Unyielding
Meaning: not flexible; not easily moved or swayed
Example: My unyielding father refused to increase my allowance.

Word: Up to date
Meaning: modern; current
Example: My classroom has the most up to date computer systems out right now.

Word: Up
Meaning: awake
Example: The farmer’s wife was up with the sun; making sure to feed the chickens before six each morning.

Word: Upbeat
Meaning: positive; cheerful
Example: The cheerleader’s upbeat attitude got the crowd excited.

Word: Upbraid
Meaning: to harshly criticize
Example: Without a doubt; my parents are going to upbraid me for not passing any of my classes this semester.

Word: Upbringing
Meaning: one’s childhood background
Example: The thief didn’t have the best upbringing and many of his bad habits date back to his childhood.

Word: Upcoming
Meaning: happening in the near future
Example: While preparing for her upcoming wedding; the bride ordered fresh flowers and cake.

Word: Update
Meaning: to keep someone informed
Example: The doctor assured us that she would update us on dad’s progress every couple of hours.

Word: Upended
Meaning: turned or set something upside down
Example: The frantic woman upended her purse dumping all of the contents out in search of her keys.

Word: Upfront
Meaning: direct and honest
Example: It’s best to be upfront and honest with people about your true intentions.

Word: Upheaval
Meaning: an abrupt disruption or change
Example: The sudden closing of the interstate exit is going to be an upheaval for local residents.

Word: Uphold
Meaning: to support or defend something
Example: The mother coddles her grown son and will always uphold him; even when what he is doing is wrong.

Word: Upholstery
Meaning: materials used to cover furniture
Example: Leather upholstery was added to the seats of the car to give it a different look.

Word: Upkeep
Meaning: the process of keeping something in good condition
Example: Because our yard requires so much upkeep; we hired a landscaping company to keep it pretty.

Word: Uplift
Meaning: to inspire and encourage someone
Example: Nothing can uplift a sad child’s spirits like a two-scoop ice cream cone.

Word: Upon
Meaning: a formal form of the word ‘on’
Example: Upon receipt of this document; please give me a call to let me know it has made it to you.

Word: Uppity
Meaning: snobbish; self-absorbed; filled with self importance
Example: The elderly lady was an uppity woman who believed her breeding and social class made her better than others.

Word: Upright
Meaning: sitting or standing in a straight position
Example: I can never fall asleep if I am sitting in an upright position.

Word: Uprising
Meaning: an act of resistance or rebellion
Example: The slave uprising led to several of the revolting men and women to be freed by their masters.

Word: Uproar
Meaning: a situation in which many people are upset or angry
Example: Uproar over the art piece began after it was found to be a fake.

Word: Uproarious
Meaning: exceptionally funny
Example: The comedian’s jokes were so uproarious I laughed until my stomach began to hurt.

Word: Upset
Meaning: emotionally troubled or stressed
Example: News of her father’s death caused the girl to become very upset.

Word: Upshot
Meaning: the final or end result of an event or situation
Example: The upshot of the investigation is that the police will not face any charges.

Word: Upside
Meaning: a positive benefit; an advantage
Example: The only upside to staying in the crappy hotel is that the rooms are cheaper than any other place.

Word: Uptight
Meaning: overly tense and anxious
Example: Because she is so uptight; Liz spends most of her days worrying about things that can’t be fixed.

Word: Upward
Meaning: moving towards a higher place
Example: We continued to climb upward; only stopping when we reached the building’s top floor.

Word: Urban
Meaning: related to a city
Example: Urban farmers are finding ways to grow food in cities with little farmland.

Word: Urbane
Meaning: marked by sophistication
Example: Henry is an urbane traveller who has visited over eighty countries.

Word: Urbanity
Meaning: being suave and sophisticated
Example: The suave man’s urbanity made him a shoe-in with the young ladies as well as their mothers.

Word: Urbanization
Meaning: the process by which cities grow
Example: Urbanization of the town can only occur if large employers move into the area.

Word: Urchin
Meaning: a young child that runs through the streets in dirty clothing; behaving badly
Example: The little urchin ran through the streets of New York barefoot and looking for trouble.

Word: Urge
Meaning: to strongly persuade
Example: Even though my wife hates crowded events; I tried to urge her to go to the career fair because it would help her get a job.

Word: Urgency
Meaning: a state requiring quick action
Example: The urgency of the situation required an ambulance to be called right away.

Word: Urgent
Meaning: very important and needing immediate attention
Example: The bill collector left an urgent message in hopes that the debtor would call her back right away.

Word: Urgently
Meaning: in a way that requires quick action
Example: The telegram was sent urgently to quickly warn the other ship of the iceberg.

Word: Urn
Meaning: a vase that is used to hold the ashes of a body that was cremated
Example: After my grandpa was cremated; his ashes were placed in a floral urn for safe keeping.

Word: Ursine
Meaning: resembling or relating to a bear
Example: The hairy man resembled a grizzly and was as tall as any ursine in the woods.

Word: Usage
Meaning: the action of something being used
Example: The usage of a car allows us humans to travel great distances in a short amount of time; something that has helped us develop as a civilization quickly.

Word: Usage
Meaning: the action of using something
Example: Because of our high cell phone usage; we decided to upgrade to a better plan.

Word: Use up
Meaning: to consume or drain all of something
Example: My sister sucks up so much shampoo; she can use up a whole bottle in a week.

Word: Use
Meaning: to utilize or make employ something for a purpose
Example: The carpenter was able to use a saw to cut the boards.

Word: Useful
Meaning: helpful; handy
Example: My grandmother expects all children to be useful and help with household chores.

Word: Usefully
Meaning: in a way that is beneficial or helpful
Example: The man must take medicine for his failing kidneys to function usefully.

Word: Useless
Meaning: not having value or purpose
Example: If you won’t take the medicine that he gives you; going to the doctor is useless.

Word: Usher
Meaning: a guide that shows someone to their seats
Example: Guiding the man and women to their table; the usher let the couple know that their waiter would be there soon.

Word: Usual
Meaning: normal; typical
Example: We will give up our usual trip to the beach for a vacation to somewhere exotic.

Word: Usually
Meaning: normally; typically
Example: The woman usually cooks at home to save money; but tonight has decided to splurge on takeout.

Word: Usufruct
Meaning: a law legal right by one person over the property of another
Example: The man’s will gives his wife 30 year usufruct; but after that the house would go to his children.

Word: Usurp
Meaning: to take over; to seize or use something without authority
Example: Since Lisa could not attend the dance; Marie had plans to usurp the title of homecoming queen.

Word: Usury
Meaning: the act of lending money at ridiculously excessive rates of interest
Example: When borrowing money; check the interest rate for usury because you do not want to pay an extreme rate of interest.

Word: Utensil
Meaning: a tool with a particular use; especially in a kitchen or house
Example: The only thing needed to seal the deal is a writing utensil to sign the check.

Word: Uterus
Meaning: the pear-shaped organ of a woman in which a baby forms before being born
Example: The fertility doctor explained to the woman that she could not carry a baby in her uterus because it is unusually shaped.

Word: Utilitarian
Meaning: useful and not simply for appearance
Example: Because Ann sees her car only as a utilitarian asset that transports her; she is not concerned about its appearance.

Word: Utilitarianism
Meaning: an theory that says actions that are harmful to certain individuals are justified if they help the majority
Example: Because the focus is on the whole and not individual needs; societies practicing utilitarianism have laws like population control.

Word: Utility
Meaning: useful and able to perform several different functions
Example: The utility vehicle was designed to carry loads more efficiently than other types of trucks.

Word: Utilization
Meaning: the use of something; usually in a practical way
Example: For max utilization of the space; we need to buy compact storage containers.

Word: Utilize
Meaning: to use something; usually in a practical way
Example: If you utilize your time wisely; you will be able to finish all of your chores by lunch.

Word: Utilizer
Meaning: someone who uses a situation or object to their benefit
Example: Carrie is a heavy utilizer of Facebook and uses the platform to market her products.

Word: Utmost
Meaning: greatest; ultimate
Example: For a secret service agent; it is of the utmost importance that the President remains safe.

Word: Utopia
Meaning: a perfect world
Example: In Jane’s utopia; everyone would wait on her and call her Princess Jane.

Word: Utter
Meaning: total or complete
Example: The billionaire’s utter lack of arrogance makes him very approachable.

Word: Utterance
Meaning: spoken word; something that someone says
Example: Every utterance coming from the mouth of the accused thief made the king even more angry.

Word: Uxorious
Meaning: describes a man who shows great (often extreme) submission or fondness towards his wife
Example: The uxorious husband catered to his wife’s every whim; cooking her dinner at night and running her bath water in the morning.

Word: Vacancy
Meaning: an opening or opportunity
Example: Because there was no vacancy at the inn; Mary and her husband had to sleep in a manger.

Word: Vacant
Meaning: available; unoccupied
Example: I have to share a room with my brother since the only vacant one does not have air conditioning.

Word: Vacate
Meaning: leave; move out of
Example: The guards were ordered to never vacate their posts.

Word: Vacation
Meaning: a period of rest or recreation in which a person stops working or going to school and focuses on fun
Example: During his vacation in Mexico; the man spent most of his time relaxing in a hammock on the beach.

Word: Vacationer
Meaning: someone out of town on a special trip
Example: The vacationer spent most of her summer trip to Miami on the beach relaxing.

Word: Vaccination
Meaning: injection of a special substance that is made of a weakened virus or disease that is used to prevent them from getting the actual illness
Example: A vaccination schedule was set up so that the infant could receive all her needed shots.

Word: Vaccine
Meaning: a special substance that is made of a weakened virus or disease that is used to prevent them from getting the actual illness
Example: The very first vaccine was created by a scientist looking for a substance that would prevent people from getting smallpox.

Word: Vacillate
Meaning: to waver between different opinions or actions; be indecisive
Example: If you ask Paula to choose a restaurant for lunch; she will vacillate between restaurants forever.

Word: Vacuity
Meaning: emptiness or blankness; often used to criticize someone or something because of lack
Example: The Scarecrow’s vacuity led most people to assume that he didn’t have a brain.

Word: Vacuole
Meaning: a small cavity within the cytoplasm of a cell that contains fluid
Example: A vacuole is a small cavity of fluid inside a cell that keeps that fluid stored until it is needed by the cell.

Word: Vacuous
Meaning: containing lack of thought or intelligence; containing nothing; empty
Example: There is no substance to her vacuous claim on the property!

Word: Vacuum
Meaning: to suck up dirt and other debris from a surface (usually carpet) using a household device with the same name
Example: It took the party planner an hour to vacuum all the confetti littering the dance floor.

Word: Vagabond
Meaning: a person who wanders from place to place without a home or job
Example: Gandhi was a famous vagabond who wandered from place to place spreading words of love; independence; and nonviolence.

Word: Vagarious
Meaning: having erratic and unpredictable behavior
Example: When in a manic phase; the vagarious woman’s behavior was quite unpredictable.

Word: Vagary
Meaning: an unpredictable action or behavior
Example: When the temperature dropped to freezing conditions on a summer day; it was a vagary of the weather.

Word: Vagrant 
Meaning: an individual who lacks regular work and moves around frequently
Example: The vagrant does not appear to work and frequently asks tourists for money.

Word: Vague
Meaning: not described well
Example: My blind date’s vague description did not help me locate him in the crowded restaurant.

Word: Vaguely
Meaning: not being clear
Example: Because Amy was heavily sedated; she only vaguely remembered her hospital stay.

Word: Vail
Meaning: to lower an item or oneself as a form of respect; acknowledgment; or mourning
Example: Citizens vail the flag in mourning when important political figures pass away.

Word: Vain
Meaning: without success
Example: After Vera failed the class; it was obvious her long hours of studying were in vain.

Word: Vainglorious
Meaning: overly proud of one’s own achievements; tending to boast about personal accomplishments
Example: The vainglorious trainer spent more time flexing his own muscles than he did helping build his client’s.

Word: Vainglory
Meaning: extreme pride in ones work that can be excessive and showy
Example: The student was filled with such vainglory over his Harvard admission that he made several copies of his acceptance letter and sent them to all of his relatives.

Word: Vainly
Meaning: without success
Example: After staying up late to watch horror films with her friends; Aria vainly tried to fall asleep but was haunted by the bloody scenes from the movie.

Word: Vale
Meaning: a large flatland usually between a mountain or rock formation
Example: The children picked wildflowers and played in the wide vale between their cottage and the mountains.

Word: Valediction
Meaning: saying goodbye with an action
Example: Jane waited for his valediction; but his stormed out of house without a single word or wave goodbye.

Word: Valedictorian
Meaning: a student; typically having the highest academic achievements of the class; who delivers the valedictory at a graduation ceremony
Example: The valedictorian had an impressive GPA that earned her admission to all of the top 3 Ivy League schools.

Word: Valedictory
Meaning: a big goodbye/farewell speech/announcement
Example: Before the president leaves the White House forever; he makes a valedictory that is broadcasted on all major television networks.

Word: Valence
Meaning: highly energized electrons that are used in chemical bonding
Example: In order to figure out if two chemicals will bond; first you must find the valence by looking at the number of electrons involved.

Word: Valentine
Meaning: a card sent; often anonymously; on St. Valentine's Day (February 14) to a person one loves or is attracted to; a person to whom one sends a card on Valentine's Day
Example: Ariel confessed her love to her best friend in a valentine but was too scared to send it.

Word: Valet
Meaning: a servant/employee who sees to the needs of others by performing chores like parking cars; dressing; or making plans
Example: Mark handed his car keys to the valet; grabbed his suitcase; and went to check in at the hotel.

Word: Valetudinarian
Meaning: a person who is unduly anxious about their health
Example: Every time he felt even a little bit sick; the valetudinarian would immediately look up his symptoms on WebMD and schedule a doctor’s appointment.

Word: Valiant
Meaning: displaying determination or courage
Example: The valiant police officer was willing to take on the entire gang to save the little girl.

Word: Valid
Meaning: of an argument or point having a sound basis in logic or fact
Example: During their debate on current politics; Jenna brought up a valid point about the number of citizens who do not vote.

Word: Validate
Meaning: to demonstrate the truth of something
Example: In order to validate the story we had been told by our friends; we had to investigate the truth of the matter for ourselves.

Word: Validation
Meaning: checking and approving the accuracy of something
Example: After validation of your rental application is completed; we will show you which properties we have available.

Word: Validity
Meaning: the state of being valid; authentic or genuine
Example: The validity of the suspect’s story was questionable to those who thought he was lying.

Word: Valley
Meaning: a land area that is typically long and narrow between two mountains or hills and dips into the ground usually by running water sources
Example: The horses run through the lush green valley and pause to drink from the stream.

Word: Valor 
Meaning: courage in the presence of danger
Example: The soldier’s valor earned him a medal of honor.

Word: Valorous
Meaning: brave
Example: In many fairy tales; knights are valorous warriors who enter into not battle with nothing but bravery and a sharp sword.

Word: Valuable
Meaning: a thing that is of great worth; especially a small item of personal property
Example: The elderly woman took an old painting to an expert to estimate its worth and was surprised at how valuable it was.

Word: Value
Meaning: to hold something at high importance or appreciate it above other things
Example: After living on her own during college; Brielle started to value all the small things her mother did for her; like laundry; washing the dishes; and cooking her meals.

Word: Value
Meaning: the amount something is worth
Example: The value of the ring was much higher than the collector expected; so he was able to sell it for a nice profit.

Word: Valve
Meaning: a typically cylindrical device that can be opened and closed that is used to direct the flow of liquid or air
Example: The firefighters connected the hose to the fire hydrant and opened the valve to release the water.

Word: Vamoose 
Meaning: to run away; to flee
Example: Feeling uncomfortable in the room full of strangers; the couple decided to vamoose and head home.

Word: Vandalism
Meaning: action involving deliberate destruction of or damage to public or private property
Example: The couple was charged with vandalism after carving their initials into a famous sculpture.

Word: Vane
Meaning: a person who changes his mind easily
Example: The vane woman in front of me at the drive-thru kept changing her order.

Word: Vanguard 
Meaning: the leading force; the head of something
Example: As soon as the residents of the village saw the vanguard of the king’s forces heading their way; they ran and hid.

Word: Vanilla
Meaning: ordinary and plain with no extra features or standards
Example: This vehicle is too vanilla for a driver who likes a lot of bells; whistles; and exclusive features.

Word: Vanish
Meaning: disappear from sight
Example: The child watched in wonder as the magician made the coin vanish from behind his ear.

Word: Vanity
Meaning: excessive pride in or admiration of one's own abilities; appearance or achievements
Example: Because vanity had caused too many girls to be late for classes; all mirrors were removed from the restrooms.

Word: Vanquish 
Meaning: to overcome; beat; or make disappear
Example: In the movies; the superheroes usually vanquish the villains.

Word: Vantage
Meaning: a place or position affording a good view; an advantage
Example: From my vantage point on the roof I could make out the advancing troops.

Word: Vanward
Meaning: toward the forefront of an action or movement
Example: Pointing vanward; the general instructed the soldiers to move toward the front of the line.

Word: Vapid
Meaning: lacking liveliness; dull
Example: To me; baseball is a vapid sport that quickly puts me to sleep.

Word: Vapor
Meaning: a substance diffused or suspended in the air; especially one normally liquid or solid
Example: Mariah breathed in the cleansing vapor of the steam room and instantly felt more relaxed.

Word: Vaporization
Meaning: the rapid change of water into steam; especially in a boiler
Example: Vaporization occurs when water is subjected to extreme heat and turns into steam.

Word: Vaporize
Meaning: convert or be converted into vapor
Example: If you boil water on the stove too long; it will vaporize and cook until the pan is completely empty.

Word: Vaquero
Meaning: someone who rides atop a horse and herds farm animals from place to place typically in Spanish speaking regions
Example: The vaquero rode his stallion quickly through the farmland to catch up to the heard of cows.

Word: Variability
Meaning: constantly changing and inconsistent
Example: Gas prices are known for their variability because they increase and decrease by the gallon every other day.

Word: Variable 
Meaning: capable of changing
Example: With this variable weather; it can be hot today and cold tomorrow.

Word: Variance
Meaning: at odds with or conflicting with
Example: The girl’s confident pose was at a variance with her shaky voice.

Word: Variant
Meaning: a form or version of something that differs in some respect from other forms of the same thing or from a standard
Example: A variant form of the virus made traditional methods of treatment ineffective.

Word: Variation
Meaning: something that is slightly different from the original
Example: Rugby is a variation of football.

Word: Varied
Meaning: showing different types or results
Example: Scientists performed the experiment many times but every time the results varied.

Word: Variegated
Meaning: having patches; spots; or streaks of different colors from the underlying or base color
Example: Calico cats have variegated patches of fur.

Word: Variety
Meaning: a number of different types of the item
Example: The small bakery held a variety of cupcakes; pastries; and muffins in exciting flavors like cotton candy and passion fruit.

Word: Various
Meaning: different types of the same basic item
Example: Her shelves were filled with various books from medical dictionaries to popular fiction and everything between.

Word: Various
Meaning: a variety of different forms of the same basic object or idea
Example: Briana stared at the various flavors of chips and couldn't decide which one to buy.

Word: Varlet
Meaning: a servant that often works as an attendant
Example: The wealthy family hired a varlet to answer the door and usher in guests whenever they hosted important events.

Word: Vary
Meaning: to differ; usually when making comparisons
Example: Temperatures vary from city to city; even in the same state.

Word: Vascular
Meaning: a system that transports fluids through a living creature
Example: The vascular system is more commonly known as the circulatory system.

Word: Vasoconstriction
Meaning: the shrinking of blood vessels that often inhibits proper circulation and increases blood pressure
Example: In blistering cold environments; vasoconstriction of the veins causes blood flow to move to the center of the body and reduces odds of freezing to death.

Word: Vassal
Meaning: a worker of a lord who is working off his debt in return for safety from the lord
Example: When the vassal took an oath from the lord of the manor; he knew that his employer would require him to tend to the fields until his obligation was met.

Word: Vast Majority
Meaning: almost all of a group
Example: A vast majority of the kid’s that go to my rural school live on a farm nearby.

Word: Vast 
Meaning: gigantic in size
Example: My daughter will not go near the rose bushes because of the vast number of bees surrounding the flowers.

Word: Vastly
Meaning: to a huge or immense extent
Example: Although humans and chimpanzees are related; they’re vastly different in appearance and mannerisms.

Word: Vat
Meaning: a massive container used to hold liquid
Example: They brewed the beer in a large vat and then transferred it into barrels to age.

Word: Vatic
Meaning: predicting or describing what will happen in the future
Example: The psychic’s predictions weren’t truly vatic but something that he tells to every customer.

Word: Vaudeville
Meaning: a type of theatre entertainment in the 19th and 20th centuries; consisting of short performances by dancers; singers; and comedians
Example: Singers; dancers; and jugglers stood by and prepared to perform their vaudeville acts.

Word: Vault
Meaning: a typically spacious room used as storage for valuables
Example: Archeologists stumbled upon an underground vault filled to the prim with ancient sculptures; gold; and other valuables.

Word: Vaunt
Meaning: brag; boast; or excessively praise
Example: China likes to vaunt its military strength; intimidating her neighbors.

Word: Vector
Meaning: a line that usually veers and can be the result of force
Example: Military aviators study the vector between their aircraft and the enemy in order to calculate how to intercept.

Word: Veer
Meaning: to swerve or change direction
Example: She helplessly watched the car in front of her veer into oncoming traffic and let out a breath when they quickly navigated back into the proper lane.

Word: Vegetarian
Meaning: someone who chooses to abstain from eating meat
Example: She became a vegetarian over the holiday when she gave up all meat for Lent.

Word: Vegetate
Meaning: to exist in a meaningless; unchallenging; and lazy state
Example: On the weekend; the tired student loved to vegetate in her room for hours just watching movies and eating popcorn until she fell asleep.

Word: Vegetation
Meaning: plant life that often covers the expanse of an area
Example: The rolling hills were filled with all sorts of vegetation.

Word: Vehemence
Meaning: intensity and forcefulness
Example: Because of his vehemence when talking about the topic; the Civil Rights leader was known for his intense speeches.

Word: Vehement
Meaning: deeply felt; passionate
Example: I was vehement about monitoring the actions of the police as they sought my husband’s killer.

Word: Vehemently
Meaning: to do something forcefully and often passionately
Example: The scorned young woman vehemently rejected her ex-boyfriend’s pleas to forgive him.

Word: Vehicle
Meaning: a mechanical vessel used to transport someone or something
Example: The little boy looked out the airport window at the vehicles lining the runway and gaped at the gargantuan metal wings on the airplanes.

Word: Veil
Meaning: a head covering that may or may not cover the whole face that is often associated with religious or cultural customs
Example: On her royal wedding day; Princess Diana wore a simple silk veil that perfectly complemented her elaborate gown.

Word: Vein
Meaning: vessels beneath skin that transport blood
Example: The phlebotomist tied a rubber band around her upper arm and scanned for a prominent vein to draw blood.

Word: Velleity
Meaning: to weakly wish or desire something without taking action to achieve it
Example: He had a velleity for a home cooked meal but he was too lazy to get off the couch and ordered take out instead.

Word: Velocity
Meaning: the rate of action or motion
Example: After the football played injured his knee; his velocity on the field decreased.

Word: Velvety
Meaning: having a smooth or soft texture
Example: She sunk into the velvety fur jacket and sighed at how the soft fabric caressed her skin.

Word: Venal
Meaning: willing to do dishonest things in return for money; willing to take bribes
Example: Because the mayor was a venal man; he had no problem accepting bribes from real estate developers.

Word: Vend
Meaning: to offer small items especially food for sale from a machine or small cart
Example: The kiosks are used to vend movies to people looking for an interesting flick to watch.

Word: Vendetta
Meaning: a series of actions taken to get back at or harm someone
Example: 1. The candidate’s vendetta against his challenger led him to question the man’s character.

Word: Vendible
Meaning: having the ability to be sold
Example: Several sites like Pinterest offer many vendible craft ideas that retirees and craftspeople can do to make money for their crafts.

Word: Vendor
Meaning: a person who sells something
Example: The beer vendor set up his stand outside of the concert and offered a variety of craft beer for sale.

Word: Veneer
Meaning: a pleasant appearance that hides the truth
Example: While the actress showed the photographers her warm veneer; she was actually fuming inside.

Word: Venerable
Meaning: worthy of respect because of age; position; or dignity
Example: The Pope is a venerable leader who is recognized for his commitment to helping others.

Word: Venerate
Meaning: to respect or worship someone or something
Example: The Bible says we should venerate our parents and our elders.

Word: Veneration
Meaning: great respect or awe for another
Example: The parishioner’s veneration for her priest came off as not only respect but also blind devotion.

Word: Vengeance
Meaning: revenge for a wrong
Example: When Jim did not get the justice he thought he deserved in court; he got his own vengeance by shooting his attacker.

Word: Vengeful
Meaning: someone who is consumed by or actively seeking revenge for a wrong doing
Example: The Count of Monte Cristo follows a vengeful Edmond Dantes on his quest to destroy the lives of those who had him falsely imprisoned.

Word: Venial
Meaning: capable of being excused
Example: Because the principal felt the boys had committed a venial offense; he only gave them a light punishment.

Word: Venison
Meaning: edible flesh of hunted game animal; typically deer
Example: Skilled hunters shoot several deer a season and freeze the venison to eat all year long.

Word: Venom
Meaning: a poisonous substance secreted by animals such as snakes; spiders; and scorpions and typically injected into prey or aggressors by biting or stinging
Example: The scorpion stores venom in its tail and releases the powerful poison when it stings.

Word: Venomous
Meaning: of animals; especially snakes; or their parts secreting venom; capable of injecting venom by means of a bite or sting
Example: The park ranger warned the campers to watch out for venomous snakes.

Word: Vent
Meaning: an opening that allows air; gas; or liquid to pass out of or into a confined space
Example: A vent at the top of the chimney allows smoky air to escape and fresh air to enter the home.

Word: Ventilate
Meaning: cause air to enter and circulate freely in (a room; building; etc.
Example: Maria opened the windows to ventilate the dusty; old basement.

Word: Ventilation
Meaning: the ability of a room/place to intake fresh air
Example: Because mines are so deep within the Earth; they have poor natural ventilation and fresh air rarely reaches far enough to clear the dust.

Word: Ventilator
Meaning: a machine that helps lungs function when the body is incapable
Example: Brielle was rushed to the hospital and put on a ventilator to help her breathe after her lung collapsed during a car accident.

Word: Ventral
Meaning: refers to the underside of a plant or animal; close to the abdomen
Example: From the cruise ship; we spotted the ventral side of a large migrating whale.

Word: Ventriloquist
Meaning: a person who can speak or utter sounds so that they seem to come from somewhere else; especially an entertainer who makes their voice appear to come from a dummy of a person or animal
Example: The children laughed as the ventriloquist made the doll speak without moving his lips.

Word: Venture 
Meaning: an undertaking that has some risk attached
Example: Although the venture is going to cost me a lot of money; I can easily recoup my funds in three months if the business is successful.

Word: Venturesome
Meaning: having the tendency to willingly take risks or dangerous adventures
Example: The venturesome couple climbed decided to climb Mount Everest for their honeymoon.

Word: Venue
Meaning: the place where something happens; especially an organized event such as a concert; conference; or sports event
Example: The bride was having trouble picking the perfect venue for the reception; but finally decided on a beautiful garden estate.

Word: Veracious
Meaning: honest; always truthful
Example: “Honest” Abraham Lincoln was known as a veracious president who stood for truth.

Word: Veracity
Meaning: the quality of being truthful
Example: Since the witness is a known enemy of the defendant; his testimony certainly needs to be evaluated for its veracity.

Word: Veranda
Meaning: a covered area outside a house; usually a large porch
Example: Old southern ladies sit in rocking chairs on the veranda outside their front door and drink sweet tea.

Word: Verbal irony
Meaning: use of words to say one thing but mean another
Example: The author used both verbal irony and sarcasm when writing one thing in her book but actually making a different point.

Word: Verbal
Meaning: spoken aloud
Example: Bree hated the verbal portion of her Spanish exam because while she knew how to write the words on paper; speaking the out loud was far more difficult.

Word: Verbatim
Meaning: repeating the exact words that were used
Example: Do you have to repeat everything I say verbatim?

Word: Verbiage
Meaning: speech or writing that uses too many words or excessively technical expressions
Example: In an attempt to confuse the jury; the attorney used a lot of legal verbiage.

Word: Verbose
Meaning: described as using an excessive amount of words
Example: The verbose man took thirty minutes to give me a simple answer.

Word: Verboten
Meaning: forbidden; prohibited
Example: Because of past arguments; political discusses are verboten at our dinner table.

Word: Verdancy
Meaning: becoming green with plants and vegetation
Example: The field’s verdancy showed through as mossy greens began to take over the pasture.

Word: Verdant
Meaning: green with grass or other rich vegetation
Example: After three years of drought conditions; the farmers welcomed the spring rains and hoped they would continue long enough to restore their crops to verdant abundance.

Word: Verdict
Meaning: a decision made after much consideration
Example: In accordance with the verdict of all five panelists; Sally was crowned the spelling bee champion.

Word: Verdure
Meaning: a thriving condition
Example: One week after a successful surgery; John was in verdure and eager to leave the hospital.

Word: Verge
Meaning: at the edge of; border of; or between two distinct sites
Example: She stood on the verge of the lake at the line where the water met the sand.

Word: Verifiable
Meaning: able to be checked or demonstrated to be true; accurate; or justified
Example: In order to write a proper research paper you must use facts to back up your argument or information that is easily verifiable.

Word: Verification
Meaning: the process of confirming the truth or validity of a claim/document
Example: The university waited for verification of the student’s SAT scores and final GPA before admitting her for fall semester.

Word: Verify
Meaning: to prove or confirm something
Example: The waitress asked to see my driver’s license so she could verify my age.

Word: Verily
Meaning: truly; certainly
Example: At over 7ft tall; the basketball player was verily one of the tallest people on record for the NBA.

Word: Verisimilar
Meaning: seemingly truthful or likely
Example: After talking to the witness; the police officer thought her story was verisimilar but would have to confirm it with hard evidence.

Word: Verisimilitude
Meaning: the appearance or semblance of truth
Example: When the man’s wife lied on the stand; she destroyed any chance the jury would believe she was capable of giving them even an ounce of verisimilitude.

Word: Veritable
Meaning: used to highlight the realness of a person; place; or thing
Example: As I watched my brother drink beer after beer; I realized he was a veritable sponge.

Word: Veritably
Meaning: extremely or greatly as compared to something else
Example: Lynette; veritably; is a much better driver than her crash dummy sister.

Word: Verity
Meaning: the condition of being real or true
Example: It was obvious from the jurors’ looks of disbelief they doubted the verity of the testimony given by the witness.

Word: Verklempt
Meaning: overwhelmed by emotion
Example: After her father’s death; the verklempt woman cried herself to self every night.

Word: Vermilion
Meaning: bold reddish-orange color
Example: Cardinals are a brilliant shade of vermilion.

Word: Vermin
Meaning: individuals or animals that cause trouble for others
Example: The vermin should be executed for raping and killing the old woman.

Word: Vernacular
Meaning: everyday language; the way people really talk with each other
Example: His vernacular identified him as a Frenchman.

Word: Vernal
Meaning: fresh or youthful or immature attributes
Example: The elderly woman had not been vernal for some time; but whenever her favorite song came on she felt as young and lively as when she was a teenager.

Word: Versatile
Meaning: having the ability to do a number of things well
Example: The SUV is a versatile vehicle that blends in easily on the city streets and can also handle the wilderness of the mountain trails.

Word: Verse
Meaning: a line of writing often found in poems; lyrics; and religious texts
Example: Song lyrics are a combination of unique verse; chorus; and bridge.

Word: Versed
Meaning: experienced or skilled in something
Example: Asia isn’t versed in the art of sewing; but her Aunt Lucille can hem anything she needs to be taken in.

Word: Version
Meaning: an alternative to the original. usually used to make a comparison
Example: She preferred the movie version of Les Miserables to the novel because it was much shorter.

Word: Version
Meaning: a specific form of something that is slightly different from earlier styles
Example: The newest version of the iPhone has different features than the previous style.

Word: Versus
Meaning: in opposition to something
Example: It seems as though every political election in the United States comes down to Democrats versus Republicans.

Word: Vertebrate
Meaning: an animal of any species that has a backbone or spinal column
Example: Because it is a vertebrate; the fish a backbone that must be removed before being eaten.

Word: Vertex
Meaning: the tapering point where two lines meet
Example: Wayne had the odd habit of eating his pizza from the vertex to the crust.

Word: Vertical
Meaning: ascending upwards and downwards in a straight line
Example: Disney’s Tower of Terror is a vertical drop from 199 ft. in the air; straight to the ground.

Word: Vertiginous
Meaning: suffering from dizziness
Example: After she hit her head; Molly became increasingly vertiginous; lightheaded; and lost her balance.

Word: Vertigo
Meaning: the feeling of spinning and being lopsided; often as a result of an inner ear problem
Example: Because Kate suffers from vertigo; it is difficult for her to walk in a straight line.

Word: Verve
Meaning: a combination of passion and energy that is typically found in artistic expression
Example: Johnny Depp is known for eccentric performances that burst with verve and energy.

Word: Very
Meaning: extremely; to a great extent
Example: Because the restaurant is very busy tonight; there is at least an hour wait on a table.

Word: Vesicle
Meaning: a fluid-filled pouch typically beneath the outer membrane; most common forms are blisters and cysts
Example: When Janice found a liquid-filled lump beneath her skin; she immediately drove to the emergency room and waited for the doctor to identify the vesicle.

Word: Vespertine
Meaning: taking place or happening at night
Example: During the vespertine hours; the moon shown brightly and coyotes began to howl.

Word: Vessel
Meaning: a large ship that typically houses some sort of cargo
Example: Columbus sailed on the Santa Maria; which was a vessel of the Spanish court.

Word: Vest
Meaning: a sleeveless garment worn on the upper part of the body for a particular purpose or activity
Example: While working at night; the road crew member wore a reflective vest around his chest so drivers could see him.

Word: Vestal
Meaning: chaste; pure; virginal
Example: In many religions; it is of utmost importance to remain godly; vestal; and chaste before marriage.

Word: Vested
Meaning: rights; benefits; or privileges that are typically inherent or legally guaranteed
Example: During serfdom; all power was vested in the noble class and those of lower lineage lacked rights; benefits; and functioned as menial laborers.

Word: Vestibule
Meaning: a hallway or room that leads into a larger main room
Example: The tourists walked through the vestibule into the main exhibit room and were astounded by the beauty of Degas’ ballerinas.

Word: Vestige
Meaning: the last small part of something that existed before
Example: The shameless killer did not show a vestige of emotion when the judge sentenced him to death.

Word: Vestigial
Meaning: an organ or limb that is no longer in use due to evolution but may be used for other unintended purposes
Example: Penguins; unlike other birds; have vestigial wings that are too heavy for flight but are perfect for swimming.

Word: Vestment
Meaning: a religious marking; clothing; etc.; that is typically worn for symbolic purposes
Example: Shia Muslims wear a black vestment to symbolize the sufferings of a major martyr of Islam.

Word: Vestry
Meaning: a room in a religious building used for meetings; gatherings; classes; etc
Example: Before delivering his sermon; the preacher gathered all of his materials from the vestry off of the main room.

Word: Vesture
Meaning: a robe or garment used as clothing
Example: After putting on his special vesture; the priest straightened the robed and prepared to walk into the temple.

Word: Vet
Meaning: to assess for specific qualities (positive or negative) before making a final decision
Example: The FBI makes it a habit to vet potential employees for any criminal history or psychological issues before hiring.

Word: Veteran
Meaning: one who has a lot of experience in a particular field or position
Example: The military veteran has served in the U.S. Army for more than twenty years.

Word: Veterinarian
Meaning: a licensed doctor that examines and prescribes medications for animals
Example: When Jenna’s dog became lethargic and sickly; she took him to the veterinarian to find out what was wrong.

Word: Veto 
Meaning: to forbid something
Example: Since I am a teenager; my father is sure to veto my request to go on an overnight trip with my boyfriend.

Word: Vex
Meaning: to bring trouble; distress; or agitation to
Example: I get irritated when people go out of their way to vex me with their small problems.

Word: Vexation
Meaning: the condition of being agitated
Example: In vexation; I watched the neighbor’s dog poop in my yard.

Word: Vexatious
Meaning: annoying; irritating
Example: The man was a vexatious litigant who brought lawsuits before the court only to irritate the judge.

Word: Vexed
Meaning: irritated
Example: I was vexed when the doctor arrived for my appointment over an hour late.

Word: Via
Meaning: by way of; through
Example: The couple decided to send out their wedding invitations via Facebook since this is a free way to let families know about the event.

Word: Viable
Meaning: having the possibility of being achieved or developed
Example: If the project is not viable; there is no reason for us to consider it.

Word: Viaduct
Meaning: a bridge or overpass that carries a road or railroad track over something (i.e. a canyon; valley.)
Example: As the viaduct started to collapse; stranded drivers on the bridge began to panic.

Word: Vial
Meaning: a small; glass container that holds liquid (usually medicine.)
Example: A vial of blood was sent to the lab so that the doctor could have more information on the man’s illness.

Word: Viand
Meaning: a tasty piece of food or dish
Example: Caviar is a pricey viand that is served at fancy restaurants.

Word: Viaticum
Meaning: holy communion as administered by a Catholic priest to a person dying or in danger of death
Example: While on his deathbed; the man’s only wish was to have Viaticum given by a priest experienced in giving Holy Communion.

Word: Vibrant
Meaning: bright and strong; energetic
Example: Although she liked her own room’s décor; the pre-teen was jealous of her younger sister’s vibrant paint colors.

Word: Vibration
Meaning: shaking; back and forth movement
Example: The vibration of the earthquake shook the city for several minutes.

Word: Vicar
Meaning: a priest of the Church of England who oversees a particular church and the area that surrounds it
Example: All the churches in the area are group together and overseen by one appointed vicar.

Word: Vicarious
Meaning: experienced or felt by watching; hearing about; or reading about someone else rather than by doing something yourself
Example: As my daughter was crowned the winner of the beauty pageant; I felt vicarious excitement coursing through my veins.

Word: Vice versa 
Meaning: with the order reversed
Example: Of what use is a car without the key and vice versa?

Word: Vice 
Meaning: an unpleasant habit
Example: I begged my husband to quit his unhealthy vice of smoking cigars.

Word: Vicennial
Meaning: happening every twenty years
Example: It seems like flooding in the area is vicennial since the land is devastated by water ever twenty years.

Word: Viceroy
Meaning: one who governs a country; province; or colony as the representative of a monarch
Example: The viceroy traveled to America to oversee one of the thirteen colonies.

Word: Vicinity
Meaning: nearby area
Example: As parents we were upset when we learned ten sex offenders lived within the vicinity of our subdivision.

Word: Vicious
Meaning: violent; destructive and cruel
Example: Mark is a vicious person who will spends years plotting how to take revenge on people that hurt him in any way.

Word: Viciously
Meaning: done in a cruel or violent way
Example: Attacking the girl viciously; the ruthless dog would not let go of her skin.

Word: Vicissitude
Meaning: a change of circumstances or fortune; typically one that is unwelcome or unpleasant.
Example: The parental vicissitude I currently have is trying to pay child support for six children.

Word: Vicissitudes
Meaning: changes (usually negative) in circumstances or fortune
Example: The vicissitudes of life led the once positive man to become cynical and negative.

Word: Victim of circumstance
Meaning: a person who has suffered at the hands of someone else or a situation that is out of their control
Example: A victim of circumstance; the murder target was simply at the wrong place at the wrong time.

Word: Victim
Meaning: a person who suffers because of the actions of someone else or an event that was out of their control
Example: Only one victim was willing to come forward and testify against her attacker.

Word: Victim
Meaning: someone who has suffered at the hands of someone else
Example: The murder victim was in the wrong place at the wrong time and died in a senseless crime.

Word: Victimized
Meaning: treated cruelly or unfairly
Example: Because he was victimized by bullies on the bus; the scared boy did not want to go to school in the morning.

Word: Victorious
Meaning: conquering and triumphant; having won a victory
Example: Because they were victorious against their enemies; the villagers were able to keep their land.

Word: Victory
Meaning: a win or success
Example: A victory over the Eagles means that we will go to the playoffs next week.

Word: Victuals
Meaning: food
Example: The dog eats up the victuals in his bowl and also begs for our food at dinnertime.

Word: Vide
Meaning: a word used to tell a reader to see or consult a different part of the text
Example: Vide the original owner’s manual for more information on you radio.

Word: Videlicet
Meaning: namely; to be specific
Example: There are several colors in my comforter; blue and red; videlicet.

Word: Video
Meaning: to record or capture something on film
Example: The mother used a camcorder to video her child singing on stage.

Word: Vie
Meaning: to take part in a contest or competition
Example: In the championship game; the two teams will vie for the national title.

Word: View
Meaning: to look at something
Example: We decided to view several pieces of art before buying a painting.

Word: Viewpoint
Meaning: someone’s perspective or position on something
Example: When the speaker delivered his viewpoint on the topic; it became apparent from his words that he favored freedom of religion.

Word: Vigil
Meaning: period of keeping awake during normal sleeping hours; especially to keep watch or pray
Example: Part of his nightly vigil was kneeling down at the foot of his bed in prayer.

Word: Vigilance
Meaning: the state of keeping a careful watch for danger
Example: Lack of vigilance caused the Titanic to crash into an iceberg that no one saw coming.

Word: Vigilant
Meaning: watchful; especially for danger or disorder
Example: Although this highway is a beautiful drive; you have to stay vigilant for deer and other animals in the road.

Word: Vigilante
Meaning: a person who is not a member of law enforcement but who pursues and punishes criminals
Example: Although he didn’t set out to be a vigilante; Peter Parker became famous for finding bad guys and making them pay.

Word: Vigilantly
Meaning: done with great care and watchfulness
Example: The officers watched the building vigilantly in hopes that extra patrol would help them catch the bandits.

Word: Vignette 
Meaning: a short but meaningful account
Example: As an assignment; we were asked to read a two-page vignette and then sum up the writer’s opinion on immigration.

Word: Vigor
Meaning: physical or mental strength/force
Example: The spirited bodybuilder attacked his workouts with energetic vigor.

Word: Vigorous
Meaning: active and strong in a physical sense
Example: Chopping firewood is a vigorous task.

Word: Vigorously
Meaning: done with a great deal of physical or mental force or effort
Example: The attorney vigorously fought for his client’s freedom; with his forcefulness leading to a plea deal.

Word: Vile
Meaning: of low morals; despicable
Example: The vile banker seemed to take great pleasure in foreclosing on the homes of elderly people.

Word: Vilely
Meaning: in an evil or wicked way
Example: Facebook is a place where hateful people can vilely vent their opinions and not be punished for it.

Word: Vilified
Meaning: to have slandered or spoken negatively about someone in a way that brings them down
Example: The politician insisted that the news reports were untrue and were only lies that vilified him.

Word: Vilify
Meaning: to utter slanderous and abusive statements against
Example: Halle’s husband tried to vilify her during their child custody battle.

Word: Vilipend
Meaning: to belittle someone or something through bad-mouthing or degrading statements
Example: The bitter husband loves to vilipend his wife in public; bad-mouthing her any chance he gets.

Word: Village
Meaning: a small town or settlement
Example: Our small village has a market but no post office or gas station.

Word: Villain
Meaning: an evil character in a story
Example: The crazed villain in the fairy tale discreetly followed the young children down the dark path in the woods in order to steal the food from their basket.

Word: Villain
Meaning: a character in a story that fights against the hero and does evil things
Example: Captain Hook was a nasty villain who tried to kidnap Tinkerbell and kill Peter Pan.

Word: Villainous
Meaning: having evil or mean tendencies or actions
Example: After reading the first chapter; the villainous witch in the story was going to cause havoc for the protagonist.

Word: Villainy
Meaning: evil behavior or actions
Example: Cruella de Ville’s puppy crimes led her to being thrown in jail for her villainy.

Word: Vim
Meaning: energy; enthusiasm
Example: The lively singer’s vim came off as a little too enthusiastic.

Word: Vincible
Meaning: able to be overcome or defeated
Example: Although we thought they were vinicble; it turned out that the tribe could not be defeated.

Word: Vindicate
Meaning: to clear from an accusation; suspicion or criticism
Example: Although the new evidence seems to vindicate the defendant of the breaking and entering charges; there is still the matter of the assault.

Word: Vindication
Meaning: to prove that someone is not guilty of wrongdoing
Example: The man felt personal vindication after police admitted he was not a suspect.

Word: Vindictive
Meaning: having or showing a desire to hurt someone who has hurt or caused problems for you
Example: My aunt is a vindictive woman who once burned all my uncle’s clothes.

Word: Vindictiveness
Meaning: a strong desire for revenge or payback
Example: The therapist urged her client to resist vindictiveness and move past the need to seek revenge.

Word: Vine
Meaning: a plant that gets its support by growing in a climbing or twisting way around a surface
Example: The trendils of the woody vine smothered the other plant as they curled around the stems.

Word: Vinous
Meaning: wine-colored
Example: The vinous cake was made red through the adding of wine.

Word: Vintage
Meaning: antique; old-fashioned
Example: The vintage dress had been stored in the small trunk since the early 1930s.

Word: Vintner
Meaning: someone who makes and sells wine
Example: As luck would have it; the vintner was able to grow his own grapes in his vineyard to make his alcoholic beverage.

Word: Violate
Meaning: to break or fail to comply with a rule or formal agreement
Example: The driver continued to violate the speed limits as he raced his car down the city streets.

Word: Violation
Meaning: in breach of a rule; law; or agreement
Example: Kevin sold cocaine; in violation of Mexican law.

Word: Violence
Meaning: the use of physical force to harm someone
Example: The violence continued as more and more protestors were beaten by police in the streets.

Word: Violent
Meaning: involving the use of physical force to harm someone
Example: Because she had been abused for many years; the wife didn’t seem to think anything was wrong with her husband’s violent outbursts.

Word: Violent
Meaning: using or involving the use of physical force to cause harm or damage to someone or something
Example: The violent video game was banned for showing very graphic killing scenes.

Word: Virago
Meaning: bad-tempered woman
Example: “I refuse to go your mother’s house;” Karen said angrily to her husband; “because that virago is always yelling at the kids and demanding we do everything she says.”

Word: Viral
Meaning: something (a video; image; an advertisement) that is circulating rapidly on the internet
Example: The image of the cat doing the Macarena went viral; gaining ten thousand likes in just one day.

Word: Virile
Meaning: having or relating to manly traits
Example: Because James considered himself such a virile person; he despised anyone who was weak including his son.

Word: Virile
Meaning: having the characteristics of a man; masculine
Example: The woman’s virile singing voice made her sound like a manly baritone.

Word: Virility
Meaning: being manly or masculine; especially in strength
Example: Because of her virility; the girl was referred to as a “tomboy” by most of her friends.

Word: Virtual
Meaning: something that is a digitally replicated version of something real
Example: Virtual paintings look very similar to the original pieces but can easily be distinguished by the trained eye.

Word: Virtual
Meaning: carried out or accessed over a computer
Example: Since I live so far from the company I want to work for; they agreed to do a virtual interview over the computer.

Word: Virtually
Meaning: nearly; almost
Example: Virtually no one went to the party other than a few freshmen who didn’t have anything else to do.

Word: Virtue
Meaning: a moral and praiseworthy trait
Example: Since Jason is such a mean man; I doubt if he has a single virtue.

Word: Virtues
Meaning: qualities or merits that make up one’s personality
Example: The company was founded on several virtues including honesty and the importance of embracing people from all walks of life.

Word: Virtuosity
Meaning: great skill in music or another artform
Example: Full of ambition and virtuosity; the young jazz musician plays as much as possible to increase her skills.

Word: Virtuoso
Meaning: a person (esp. a musician) who does something in a very skillful way
Example: We sat in amazement as the young prodigy delivered a piano performance that revealed his unstoppable future as a virtuoso.

Word: Virtuous
Meaning: having strong moral fiber
Example: Margaret was a virtuous woman who dedicated her life to helping others.

Word: Virulence
Meaning: the ability of a microorganism or bacteria to produce disease
Example: The virulence of the microbes seemed to increase with time; producing more disease with time.

Word: Virulent
Meaning: extremely dangerous and deadly and usually spreading very quickly
Example: Local law authorities investigated Mitchell after he was suspected of stealing a virulent disease that could kill millions of people.

Word: Virus
Meaning: tiny organisms that cause disease and must have a cell host to multiply
Example: The virus is said to spread with time; causing the infected person to become sicker as the years go on.

Word: Vis a vis
Meaning: face to face; in person
Example: I feel it is better to discuss personal issues vis-à-vis rather than over the phone.

Word: Visa
Meaning: an official mark or stamp on a passport that allows someone to enter or leave a country for a specific reason or amount of time
Example: The Nigerian’s visa was approved; allowing him to visit his family in America over the Christmas holiday.

Word: Visage
Meaning: the facial appearance of an individual or animal
Example: The model’s visage earned her many cover photos.

Word: Viscera
Meaning: internal organs; specifically the body’s intestines
Example: The viscera are where the body makes its last attempt to gain any nutrients from food before pushing the remainder out of the body.

Word: Visceral
Meaning: based on emotional reactions rather than on reason or thought
Example: His visceral reaction of punching the wall left him with a broken hand on top of his broken heart.

Word: Viscid
Meaning: sticky; gooey
Example: Creating a viscid cake with caramel; the chef enjoyed making the ooey-gooey treat.

Word: Viscosity
Meaning: the thickness of a liquid or its resistance to movement
Example: The syrup flows slowly from the bottle because of its viscosity.

Word: Viscount
Meaning: a lower-middle ranking english nobleman
Example: The viscount was appointed by the king to help the count run his portion of the English countryside.

Word: Viscous 
Meaning: having the characteristics of being sticky and/or thick and slow to move
Example: It seemed to take forever for the viscous cough medicine to come out of the bottle.

Word: Visibility
Meaning: the ability to see or be seen
Example: Because of visibility issues; the teen needs glasses before he can start to drive.

Word: Visible
Meaning: able to be seen
Example: The sun was barely visible because of the large clouds in the sky.

Word: Visibly
Meaning: clearly; noticeably
Example: Although her husband’s weight gain was visibly clear; the wife pretended not to notice.

Word: Vision
Meaning: the ability to see
Example: Glasses help my vision improve and allow me to see far away.

Word: Visionary 
Meaning: using foresight and imagination to plan for the time ahead
Example: Jim was a visionary leader who had the foresight to lead our company in a profitable direction for many years.

Word: Visit
Meaning: to go to see a person or place
Example: We plan to visit as many Disney parks as possible on our vacation.

Word: Visitant
Meaning: a visitor from the spirit world
Example: Although the visitant remained unseen; we could hear the ghost floating around in the attic.

Word: Visitation
Meaning: a set period of time in which people get to see and spend time with each other
Example: Family visitation for inmates lasts from two to four.

Word: Visitor
Meaning: a person who goes to see a person or place
Example: Each visitor needs their own ticket to enter into the building.

Word: Visits
Meaning: goes to see a person or place
Example: Each time my father visits; he complains about my messy house.

Word: Vista
Meaning: a distant view or scene
Example: The vacationers could see their favorite bay vista from the top of the tower.

Word: Visual
Meaning: relating to eyesight
Example: I learn best when information is put in visual images that I can see.

Word: Visualize
Meaning: to form a mental image of someone or something; imagine
Example: My art teacher told us; “Visualize the mountain and stream and then draw it.”

Word: Vital
Meaning: essential for something
Example: Peanut butter is a vital ingredient in the recipe for peanut butter cookies.

Word: Vitality
Meaning: energy; strength
Example: The doctor was proud to see his patient was full of vitality.

Word: Vitamin
Meaning: a natural substance that is needed for normal growth
Example: Because I am lacking the vitamin B-12; my body tends to be tired all the time.

Word: Vitiate
Meaning: to spoil; make faulty; to reduce the value; quality; or effectiveness of something
Example: When peers and bullies apply pressure; it can vitiate the moral character of young people and lead them down the wrong path.

Word: Vitiated
Meaning: having ruined something or made it faulty
Example: The company’s morals were vitiated by a greedy CEO who pushed workers to commit fraud.

Word: Vitriol
Meaning: mean-spirited and venomous criticism or talk
Example: During the town-meeting; angry citizens met the mayor spewing vitriol.

Word: Vitriolic
Meaning: harsh or corrosive in tone
Example: What was supposed to be a civil debate turned into a debate reaching vitriolic levels; ending with both participants screaming obscenities.

Word: Vituperate
Meaning: to insult or verbally attack someone using abusive language
Example: We are sure that the nail technicians vituperate us in their own language when they are irritated.

Word: Vituperative
Meaning: abusive and harsh
Example: We cannot be friends if you continue to attack me with vituperative words.

Word: Viva Voce
Meaning: By word of mouth (orally)
Example: Because he could speak the answer but couldn’t see the words on the exam; a viva voce test was given to the blind man.

Word: Vivacious
Meaning: to be bubbly and energetic
Example: When the vivacious child came through the school’s door on her first day of kindergarten; she spoke with every student and volunteered to do every activity.

Word: Vivaciously
Meaning: done is a lively or spirited way
Example: Dancing vivaciously across the stage; the energetic dancer attracted the attention of all of the crowd.

Word: Vivaciousness
Meaning: liveliness; energy
Example: Known for her vivaciousness; Andi is considered the life of the party in her hometown.

Word: Vivacity
Meaning: the state of being attractive because of one’s enthusiasm and liveliness
Example: Elicia’s vivacity helps her gain customers at work since being attractive and lively are need traits for a bartender.

Word: Vivid 
Meaning: colorful; bright
Example: The artist was known for his vivid paintings that were distinguished by their colorful hues.

Word: Vivify
Meaning: to arouse; stimulate or invigorate
Example: Exercise and eating healthy can really vivify someone into doing more activities in their day due to their increase in energy.

Word: Viviparous
Meaning: describes animals that produce live babies instead of reproducing through eggs
Example: Although a shark is a fish; it is viviparous and gives birth to live baby sharks.

Word: Vivisection
Meaning: purposely wounding or slitting open an animal in order to examine it for medical purposes
Example: When the photos of the vivisection were posted online; many people were upset at the brutal nature of killing the animals until they found it was done for scientific reasons.

Word: Vocal
Meaning: speaking loudly and freely about something
Example: The woman was very vocal about racial issues and wouldn’t backdown when questioned by the media.

Word: Vocation 
Meaning: the job a person holds or would like to hold
Example: At an early age; Frank knew his chosen vocation was to be a priest so he could minister to others.

Word: Vociferate
Meaning: to shout; argue; or otherwise speak loudly or aggressively
Example: The man decided to vociferate with his wife because the two of them were having an argument and only shouting could apparently get his point across.

Word: Vociferous
Meaning: making a loud outcry
Example: The protestors were vociferous as they screamed outside of the government building.

Word: Vogue
Meaning: a trend or largely admired fad
Example: When the most popular girl in school wore her hair differently; a new vogue took place the next day when everyone was wear that same hairstyle.

Word: Voice
Meaning: the sound produced in a person’s larynx that passes out of the throat/mouth
Example: After yelling at the children all day; the mother had lost her voice.

Word: Void 
Meaning: not legal
Example: Since the judge did not sign the final page of the documents; our divorce is void.

Word: Volant
Meaning: to spread wings outward as if to fly
Example: The prince knew he was in trouble when the volant dragon became twice his size and then fluttered about.

Word: Volar
Meaning: relating to the sole of the foot or palm of the hand
Example: The volar surface of the man’s palms was made rough by constant working with his hands over the years.

Word: Volatile
Meaning: tending to erupt in violence; easily aroused
Example: Because Mary and Frank have a volatile relationship; they often argue.

Word: Volcano
Meaning: a mountainlike opening in the earth’s crust through which molten lava; rocks; and gas spews out
Example: The active volcano in Hawaii continues to gush gaseous lava and ash through It’s funnel-like top.

Word: Volitant
Meaning: flying or moving about rapidly
Example: During the Jurassic period; volitant creatures flew rapidly around the earth.

Word: Volition
Meaning: the power to make your own decisions or choices
Example: Despite my parents' preference; I have decided to attend an out-of-state college on my own volition.

Word: Volley
Meaning: a strike or kick of the ball made before it touches the ground during a sporting event or game
Example: The volleyball player attempted to volley the ball past the net; but the other team blocked the strike.

Word: Voluble
Meaning: characterized by ready or rapid speech; fluent
Example: After my grandfather drinks a few beers; he becomes voluble and will not stop talking.

Word: Volume
Meaning: the power of sound; how loud something is
Example: Because headphones play music directly into your ears; you should lower the volume of the music to avoid damaging your ear drums and your hearing.

Word: Voluminous
Meaning: spacious; roomy
Example: The hospital is adding a more voluminous waiting room on to his building in order to hold more patients.

Word: Voluntary
Meaning: done or given without being forced to do so
Example: The generous donor gives voluntary donations to the charity without anyone have to ask him for money.

Word: Volunteer
Meaning: to donate time or energy to a cause usually charitable
Example: The students volunteer at the annual beach clean up.

Word: Voluptuous
Meaning: displaying luxury and giving pleasure to the senses
Example: Every once in a while I like to treat myself to the voluptuous indulgence of a spa weekend.

Word: Vomit
Meaning: to eject/throw up food and other matter from the stomach through the mouth
Example: Feeling sick to her stomach; the nauseous woman tried not to vomit all over the floor.

Word: Voracious
Meaning: having a large appetite; greedy
Example: The football player was a voracious eater who easily consumed two chickens during one meal.

Word: Voracity
Meaning: extreme hunger for food or an activity that is powerful and consuming
Example: Her voracity for reading was marked by her overflowing bookshelves; too much money spent at her favorite little bookshop; and the fact that she read at least one book a day.

Word: Vortex
Meaning: a movement or force; usually circular in shape; that pulls things into its stream or current
Example: In the movie; the vortex pulled in every spaceship that came near it.

Word: Votary
Meaning: A person; such as a monk or nun; who lives a religious life according to vows they have made
Example: The young man decided he wanted to devote his life to his religion and became a votary.

Word: Voter
Meaning: a person who casts a vote in an election
Example: Casting his ballot at the election precinct; the voter was confident in his selection for a new county mayor.

Word: Votive
Meaning: dedicated or given in fulfillment of a vow or pledge
Example: In honor of the holiday; votive candles were placed around the room.

Word: Voucher
Meaning: piece of paper that entitles the holder to a discount
Example: Although she was not doing well financially; Amber was able to buy lunch with a voucher.

Word: Vouchsafed
Meaning: granted as a favor or honor
Example: Since the parole committee vouchsafed the killer’s release from prison; the parents of his victims have been in an uproar.

Word: Vow
Meaning: an unwavering decision; usually of great importance to those involved
Example: On their wedding day; John made a vow to love his wife beyond death and into the next life.

Word: Vowel
Meaning: a speech sound (a; e; I; o; or u) you make with your mouth open and your tongue in the middle
Example: ‘E’ is the most frequently used vowel; being used to form words like ‘feel’ and ‘exercise.’

Word: Voyage
Meaning: an account of a trip especially one made in a boat
Example: During the seven-day voyage; the ship traveled to three different countries.

Word: Voyeuristic
Meaning: getting pleasure from secretly watching other people taking their clothes off or having sex
Example: Arrested for videoing women without their consent; the voyeuristic neighbor is being held on a fifty-thousand dollar bond.

Word: Vulgar
Meaning: without taste; inappropriate
Example: The first time a student uses vulgar language in class he is given an afterschool detention.

Word: Vulnerable
Meaning: exposed or in a position that cannot be completely defended
Example: Without some type of shade; my toddler is going to be extremely vulnerable to the sun.

Word: Vying
Meaning: involved in a competition for something
Example: The two boys are both crazy about the head cheerleader and are constantly vying for her attention.

Word: Waddle
Meaning: to take small steps while walking in a stumbling way
Example: As the duck would waddle to the pond; its webbed feet would move back and forth along the path in bobbing motion.

Word: Wade
Meaning: to walk or paddle through water or another liquid
Example: During the flood; the escaping residents had to wade through the rushing water to get to dry land.

Word: Waft 
Meaning: to advance gently through the air
Example: My children hurried to the kitchen when the scent of freshly baked cookies started to waft upstairs.

Word: Wag
Meaning: (of an animal) to cause one’s tail to move back and forth rapidly
Example: The happy dog began to wag his tail back and forth when he saw his owner through the window.

Word: Wager
Meaning: to bet or gamble
Example: The gambling banker tended to wager too much; betting it all on risky investments.

Word: Waggish
Meaning: acting in a mischievous manner
Example: The waggish teenage boys kept tripping on the ground in hopes of attracting the attention of the pretty girls.

Word: Waif
Meaning: a very skinny and lanky girl or young woman
Example: After noticing the female waif begging for food on the streets of India; it became apparent to the tourists that it had been a long time since she had a proper meal.

Word: Wail
Meaning: a loud; long; and often anger or pain-filled cry
Example: The toddler started to wail after he fell off his bike and scraped his knee.

Word: Waist
Meaning: the part of the human body above the hips and below the rib cage
Example: Your waist is what the band of your pants rest on; holding them up just above your hips.

Word: Waive
Meaning: to give up one’s rights or claims
Example: 1. Because Bill knows he is innocent; he is going to waive his right to an attorney.

Word: Waiver
Meaning: a document that records the fact that someone has given up the right to a claim
Example: By signing the waiver; the scuba diver assumed the risk of any accidents.

Word: Wake
Meaning: to emerge from a state of sleep
Example: The alarm clock wasn’t set for the right time; so it didn’t wake the CEO up for work this morning.

Word: Wallop
Meaning: to hit hard
Example: Boxers wallop each other with jabs and punches.

Word: Wallow
Meaning: to indulge in one’s emotions
Example: Ever since April lost her job; she has done nothing but wallow in self-pity.

Word: Wallowing
Meaning: to roll about in a lazy or relaxed manner
Example: Wallowing about in its pigpen; the lazy pig loved to frolic in the mud and muck.

Word: Wan
Meaning: weak or pale in quality or appearance
Example: Although the toddler was quite ill; he still managed to give his mother a wan smile.

Word: Wander
Meaning: to stray from a path or walk about without a purpose
Example: The bookworm loved to wander through the library and brush her fingers against the spines of the books.

Word: Wanderlust
Meaning: a deep urge to travel
Example: Even though I had sprained my ankle; I could not resist my wanderlust and used crutches to walk to the beach with my friends.

Word: Wane
Meaning: to gradually decrease in value or intensity
Example: When the investigators ran out of leads; the intensity of the murder investigation started to wane.

Word: Waning
Meaning: a gradual decline in strength or power
Example: The losing basketball team’s confidence was waning in the final moments of the game.

Word: Wanton
Meaning: having no concern for the rights; feelings; or safety of others
Example: Jim’s wanton disregard for others was obvious when he drove home drunk.

Word: War
Meaning: a state of conflict between two countries or groups of people
Example: After our country was attacked with a missile; we decided to go to war against our enemy.

Word: Warden
Meaning: the person in charge of a jail or prison
Example: The newest warden is in charge of running a state facility that houses over 2;000 inmates.

Word: Wardrobe
Meaning: a person’s entire collection of clothing
Example: The plain jane wants to spice up her wardrobe with a few sexy dresses and provocative mini-skirts.

Word: Ware
Meaning: a good that can be purchased
Example: The ware I bought at the street festival is the perfect addition to my mug collection.

Word: Warfare
Meaning: involvement in the activities of armed conflict (war)
Example: The country has a history of warfare and always seems to involve itself in armed conflicts.

Word: Warily
Meaning: carefully; with caution
Example: The wealthy woman watched warily as the three suspicious men walked by her luxury car.

Word: Wariness
Meaning: the state of being cautious about things that could be dangerous or problematic
Example: Because of her wariness around strangers; Jazz is reluctant to talk to people she doesn’t know.

Word: Warning
Meaning: a sign or signal that something is going to happen
Example: The loud siren served as a warning and let the townspeople know a tornado was coming.

Word: Warp
Meaning: to twist into a different or abnormal shape
Example: If the chair gets wet; the wood will warp and make the furniture uncomfortable for sitting.

Word: Warrant
Meaning: a document issued by the court that gives the police the authority to do something (to enter a place; to arrest a person.)
Example: Showing up with a warrant; the police asked the homeowner to let them inside so they could search for their suspect.

Word: Warranted 
Meaning: necessary; needed
Example: In the case of the serial killer; the death penalty is warranted as a punishment.

Word: Wary
Meaning: caution; guarded; careful
Example: One of the most important lessons that parents must teach young children is to always be wary of strangers.

Word: Washable
Meaning: able to be washed or cleaned
Example: The washable paint was easily wiped off the floor.

Word: Wasp
Meaning: a winged insect that stings and creates a paper nest from wood pulp
Example: A wasp buzzed around the tree and landed on its paper nest.

Word: Wassail
Meaning: an early English toast to someone's health
Example: The couple’s wassail ritual was a lot longer than other people’s toasts.

Word: Waste
Meaning: to misuse something or to use it carelessly
Example: The children tend to waste food and never eat half of what they order.

Word: Wasteful
Meaning: using something in a careless or uncaring way
Example: Wasteful spending led the family to be penniless and living in a shelter.

Word: Wasteland
Meaning: an unused area of land that is barren and devoid of growth
Example: The desert is a barren wasteland; with little in the way of vegetation or life; and no hope for becoming something more bountiful anytime soon.

Word: Wastrel
Meaning: an individual with a tendency to waste resources and time
Example: Since Bill is a wastrel; he spends most of the day in bed.

Word: Watch
Meaning: to keep one’s eyes on something
Example: The children were asked to sit and watch the others play until it was their turn.

Word: Watchdog
Meaning: a person or organization who focuses on making sure others don’t act in a way that is illegal or unethical
Example: The company is known as an anti-fraud watchdog that tries to stop bank embezzlement from taking place.

Word: Watchful
Meaning: alert; on the lookout
Example: The watchful security guard is always on the lookout for danger.

Word: Water
Meaning: clear liquid that that is used for drinking or washing that falls from clouds as rain
Example: Filling her tub with cold water; the woman got her clothes ready to be washed.

Word: Waterfall
Meaning: a cascade of water falling from a high place down to a low place
Example: Coming down the waterfall in a barrel; the crazy daredevil shocked the people watching from the river bank.

Word: Watershed
Meaning: a turning point or milestone
Example: Winning Teacher of the Year was a watershed moment in my career.

Word: Wave
Meaning: to move one’s hand back and forth as a signal; usually a greeting
Example: I gave a quick wave to my neighbors and then went inside by house.

Word: Wavelength
Meaning: a person’s way of thinking or idea
Example: Because they weren’t on the same wavelength when it came to their marriage; the couple decided to divorce.

Word: Waver
Meaning: to be uncertain
Example: I am certain of my selection so my decision will not waver.

Word: Wavering
Meaning: hesitating or becoming doubtful about a decision
Example: Becky’s trust in her husband is wavering; and she is beginning to wonder if getting married was a good idea.

Word: Wax
Meaning: to expand or enlarge in appearance; amount or power
Example: As she got to know the young man’s wonderful personality; the young girl’s love for him began to wax to the point that she could see marrying him.

Word: Waxing
Meaning: the process of covering a surface with wax in order to protect it or make it shine
Example: Waxing the floor will help protect it from scratches during moving.

Word: Way
Meaning: a road; path; or another thoroughfare through which one can travel
Example: Because our old path to the lake is overgrown with weeds; we will need to find a new way to get there.

Word: Waylaid
Meaning: laid in wait for someone only to stop or attack them
Example: The hiding trolls waylaid those passing over the bridge without paying the toll.

Word: Waylay
Meaning: to actively block an individual’s path in order to interrogate; detain; etc.
Example: Reporters attempted to waylay the celebrity at the airport and bombard him with questions; but his security team intervened.

Word: Wayward 
Meaning: off the expected path
Example: We went wayward on our journey and arrived two hours late.

Word: Weak
Meaning: not strong; lacking power or might
Example: After being sick for several days; my body felt puny and weak.

Word: Weaker
Meaning: having less strength or power
Example: Because my brother is weaker than me; I did most of the heavy lifting during the move.

Word: Weakling
Meaning: a coward who is too afraid and weak
Example: Considered a weakling by his family; Linden wanted to prove that he could stand up for himself and put his cowardly ways behind him.

Word: Weakly
Meaning: doing something in a way that is not strong or lacks power
Example: The woman cried out weakly; but her fear and powerlessness stopped her from yelling.

Word: Weakness
Meaning: lacking strength or power
Example: Muscle weakness and lack of energy are both symptoms of the flu.

Word: Weal
Meaning: a welt or red mark left on the body after a blow
Example: A red weal is present just above the fighter’s swollen eye.

Word: Wealth
Meaning: a large amount of money; property; or possessions
Example: The rich teenagers wasted their wealth on fancy dinners and expensive trips out of the country.

Word: Wealthy
Meaning: having a large amount of money; property; or possessions
Example: My wealthy neighbors have more money than they know what to do with.

Word: Wean
Meaning: to gradually eliminate a thing from your life
Example: I’m trying to wean myself off soda by drinking fewer each day.

Word: Wear
Meaning: to have on one’s body such as clothing or protective gear
Example: My mother won’t let me wear the skirt out of the house because it is so short.

Word: Wearily
Meaning: doing something in a tired way with little energy or patience
Example: The men traveled wearily along the path; refusing to give up even though they were tired.

Word: Weariness
Meaning: tiredness; exhaustion
Example: After several days of no sleep weariness began to creep up on the workaholic.

Word: Wearisome
Meaning: tiring or exhausting
Example: Because of the wearisome plowing he does; the hardworking farmer usually comes home exhausted.

Word: Weary
Meaning: worn out; exhausted
Example: After the long road trip; we were all so weary we fell asleep in our clothes.

Word: Weather
Meaning: the state of the air and atmosphere in a specific place and time
Example: Rainy weather ruined our family picnic soon after we arrived at the park.

Word: Weathered
Meaning: worn and battered
Example: The weathered flag was ripped to pieces by the strong wind.

Word: Weathering
Meaning: the act of weather conditions altering the state of material; whether it be texture; color; etc
Example: Powerful wind gusts and heavy rains did their part weathering the church until its fresh paint was chipped and peeling.

Word: Weave
Meaning: to move back and forth or side to side
Example: The taxi continued to weave back and forth; in and out of traffic.

Word: Wed
Meaning: to marry
Example: A pastor is needed if we are to wed in the chapel this afternoon.

Word: Wedded
Meaning: married
Example: The woman wedded her longtime boyfriend in a private ceremony on the beach.

Word: Wedding
Meaning: a marriage ceremony
Example: During the wedding; the bride and groom both said “I do.”

Word: Wedge
Meaning: to cram force something into a narrow space
Example: If you wedge the rock in between the door and the frame; it will stay open until you come back.

Word: Wedlock
Meaning: marriage
Example: After only three months of wedlock; the celebrity couple was heading for a divorce.

Word: Wee
Meaning: very small; a little
Example: Although he is just a wee little lad; the small boy is strong for his age.

Word: Weed
Meaning: a wild plant growing where it is not wanted
Example: One stubborn weed was left in the flower bed; returning every time it was pulled up.

Word: Week
Meaning: a period of seven days; starting with Sunday and ending on Saturday
Example: The candle is only good for a week and must be replaced on the seventh day.

Word: Weep
Meaning: to cry
Example: My mother couldn’t help but weep when she found out my father died.

Word: Weigh
Meaning: to measure how heavy something is
Example: If you weight the fruit; it should equal one pound.

Word: Weight
Meaning: the heaviness of something; specifically its mass
Example: After losing weight; I could fit into a much smaller swim suit.

Word: Weightlessness
Meaning: the state of being weightless or not held down by gravity
Example: While walking on the moon; the astronaut experienced weightlessness.

Word: Weightlifter
Meaning: someone who takes part in a sport or activity in which they lift heavy weights or barbells
Example: The weightlifter slowly lifted up the massive bar; showing his strength as he curled it with his stiff muscles.

Word: Weightlifting
Meaning: a sport or activity in which one lifts heavy weights or barbells
Example: Because he enjoys weightlifting; the bodybuilder spends a majority of his gym time lifting heavy barbells while doing squats.

Word: Weighty
Meaning: heavy; hefty
Example: The weighty dresser was difficult to move from one room to the next.

Word: Weird
Meaning: strange or unusual
Example: Many people find it weird that I put ketchup on every food that I eat.

Word: Welcome
Meaning: to greet someone in a polite or friendly way
Example: Polite members will welcome church visitors and show them to their pews.

Word: Welcomed
Meaning: accepted; embraced
Example: The man’s in-laws welcomed him into their family; as they were glad to have a new son-in-law.

Word: Welcoming
Meaning: friendly; warming
Example: The welcoming staff at Disney World make all of the guests feels as if they have a friend.

Word: Welfare
Meaning: wellbeing; health
Example: A welfare program was put in place to make sure poor children in the area still had healthy food to eat.

Word: Welkin
Meaning: the sky; heaven
Example: Looking up at the welkin; the camper was amazed by the countless stars.

Word: Well-being
Meaning: refers to one’s health or safety
Example: Concerned about his mother’s wellbeing; the son took her to the doctor for a check-up.

Word: Well-deserved
Meaning: understandably gained or merited
Example: After the off-duty police officer risked his life to go back into the burning house and save the entire family; he received the well-deserved award from the police chief.

Word: Well-Known
Meaning: famous; popular
Example: Because he was well-known; the celebrity can’t go out in public without being noticed.

Word: Well-versed
Meaning: to be talented; familiar; and informed of something specific
Example: Once the foreign exchange student spent the year in Germany; she became well-versed in German having the ability to speak it fluently.

Word: Well
Meaning: satisfactory; good
Example: If I do well enough on my test; I won’t have to go to school tomorrow.

Word: Wellaway
Meaning: a word used as an expression of sorrow or distress
Example: “Wellaway!’ the sailor cried out in distress as he watched the boat sink.

Word: Wellness
Meaning: the state of being in good health
Example: Focusing on wellness and good health; the dieter was finally able to get herself in shape.

Word: Welt
Meaning: a swollen; red mark on the body made by a blow or chemical
Example: The tear gas caused a puffy red welt above the soldier’s eye.

Word: Weltanschauung
Meaning: a person’s philosophy of life or worldview
Example: Our weltanschauung is shaped by major events in our lives and how they affected our views.

Word: Welter
Meaning: wild disorder
Example: The classroom was in a welter when the teacher did not show up for class.

Word: Wend
Meaning: to follow a set direction or path
Example: Miles of trails wend their way through the trees and meadows.

Word: Wept
Meaning: to cry bitterly
Example: Having just learned that her son had been killed in the line of duty; the woman felt to her knees and wept; streaking her face with tears.

Word: Werewolf
Meaning: a person believed to change into a wolf some of the time; especially at night when there is a full moon
Example: Although Jacob appeared to be a normal teenager during the way; he morphed into a howling werewolf once the sun went down.

Word: West
Meaning: the direction toward the point of the horizon where the sun set
Example: If you turn left at the northern star; you will be traveling due west.

Word: Westernization
Meaning: adoption of western traditions or ideas; specifically the traditions of any culture that originally came from Europe
Example: Westernization traces its roots back to Ancient Greece; where the concepts of arts and democracy first took hold.

Word: Wet
Meaning: covered with a liquid; usually water
Example: The floor is still wet from where I spilled soda on it.

Word: Wetland
Meaning: land that has wet soil; such as a marsh or a swamp
Example: The animals living on the wetland were at risk of losing their habitat because of the oil spill.

Word: Whack
Meaning: to hit or strike something sharply
Example: The runner threatened to whack the growling dog with a stick when it came up to him on the trail.

Word: Whale
Meaning: an extremely large ocean mammal that breathes through an opening on the top of its head
Example: The blue whale is an ocean mammal and the largest animal that has ever lived on earth.

Word: Wham
Meaning: a strike of great force
Example: The angry wife slammed the door behind her with a satisfying wham.

Word: Whammy
Meaning: a situation where two unpleasant things happen at the same time
Example: The death of her father and mother within a few days was quite a whammy for Janice.

Word: Wharf
Meaning: a platform built on or along water where ships can load/unload goods or passengers
Example: A large wharf was built on the bay next to the shipbuilding facility.

Word: Whatchamacallit
Meaning: a word used when the actual name of the object in question will not come to mind
Example: My grandmother calls my brother whatchamacallit when she forgets his actual name.

Word: Whatever
Meaning: anything; any
Example: You can eat whatever you like; as long as it is not seafood.

Word: Whatnot
Meaning: a word used to indicate additional things of any kind that you don't feel like naming
Example: During our family vacation; we will eat; swim; and whatnot.

Word: Whatsoever
Meaning: in any way; at all
Example: There was no snow on the ground; whatsoever.

Word: Wheat
Meaning: a cereal grain that is ground to make flour for bread; pasta; pastry; etc
Example: Just one bushel of wheat can make up to forty-five boxes of flake cereal.

Word: Wheedle
Meaning: to try and persuade using flattery
Example: After Bill forgot his wedding anniversary; he attempted to wheedle his way back into his wife’s heart by surprising her with a romantic getaway.

Word: Wheel
Meaning: a circular object that revolves around a bar and axle and is usually used for movement of some kind
Example: To move the car towards the barn; the driver must turn the wheel towards the left.

Word: Wheelchair
Meaning: a chair on mounted wheels that is used for transportation by a person who can’t walk
Example: After injuring his leg in a terrible car accident; the man had to use a wheelchair to get around.

Word: Wheeze
Meaning: to breathe with a whistling or rattling sound in the chest
Example: Because of an infection in his lungs; the patient will wheeze anytime he breathes in air too deeply.

Word: Whelm
Meaning: to bury something by engulfing or submerging it
Example: During the devastating fire; the tall flames began to whelm every room in the house.

Word: Whelp
Meaning: a baby dog or wolf; a puppy
Example: The little whelp will cry anytime the momma dog is away from him too long.

Word: Whence
Meaning: from what place or source
Example: To end racism; you must start from whence the ideas originally came from.

Word: Whenever
Meaning: at whatever time
Example: Whenever you want to go to a party; call me and let me know.

Word: Whereabouts
Meaning: the place where something is located
Example: The police told me they would contact me if they got any information on my missing car’s whereabouts.

Word: Whereby
Meaning: by which or through which
Example: The voters walked into a voting precinct whereby they cast their votes for their favorite candidate.

Word: Wherein
Meaning: in which
Example: The shy girl is anxious in any situation wherein she is the center of attention.

Word: Whereof
Meaning: with or by which
Example: Because she was raised in the heart of the city; the author of the urban book knows whereof she speaks.

Word: Whereupon
Meaning: right after; closely following
Example: The couple got married; whereupon they went on an amazing honeymoon.

Word: Wherewithal
Meaning: money or funds needed for a purchase or project
Example: The couple really wants to buy the house; but they do not have the wherewithal to make the down payment.

Word: Whet
Meaning: to trigger or make desire
Example: The mobile phone company uses celebrity endorsements to make consumers whet their phones.

Word: Whether
Meaning: expressing a doubt or choice between two different things
Example: I’m not sure whether I should cook hamburgers or spaghetti for lunch.

Word: Whetstone
Meaning: a sharpening stone that is used to sharpen knives or other tools
Example: Using a whetstone to sharpen his sword; the knight prepared his weapon for battle.

Word: Whey
Meaning: the watery part of milk that remains after curds are formed
Example: When milk curdles; the whey is separated from the protein.

Word: Which
Meaning: used to show which particular object one is talking about
Example: The real and the fake paintings look so much alike that it’s even hard for collectors to know which was which.

Word: Whiff
Meaning: a smell or aroma
Example: The children came running as soon as they got a whiff of the fresh pizza.

Word: While
Meaning: a period of time
Example: We went to the park for a little while and afterwards ventured to the ice cream shop.

Word: Whilom
Meaning: former; past
Example: The whilom friends were once so close; but now they hate one another.

Word: Whilst
Meaning: while or during
Example: Whilst it is not unusual for my husband and I to fight; the constant arguing does concern me.

Word: Whim
Meaning: a sudden desire to do something unplanned
Example: The police officer acted on a whim; not thinking before he violently slammed the suspect to the ground.

Word: Whimper
Meaning: a low cry that is used to express pain or unhappiness
Example: The puppy let out a quiet whimper while licking its injured paw.

Word: Whimsical
Meaning: in an amusing or playful manner
Example: The whimsical music made me feel like a little kid again.

Word: Whimsy
Meaning: the quality of being amazing or fantastic
Example: There is a touch of whimsy to this metal sculpture; a certain magical and inspired aura to it that shows how passionate the artist was.

Word: Whine
Meaning: a long; high-pitched sound
Example: The toddler’s high-pitched whine annoyed everyone in her house.

Word: Whip
Meaning: to beat or thrash
Example: Every time the trainer would whip the horse; the mare hid from the beating.

Word: Whiplash
Meaning: an injury caused by a severe jerk to the head/neck
Example: During the car accident; the driver was rear-ended and his neck suffered whiplash from the jerking.

Word: Whipsaw
Meaning: to move or make something move quickly between two different directions
Example: The politician tried to whipsaw his followers by going back and forth on his stance.

Word: Whirl
Meaning: to twirl or spin
Example: The tornado continued to whirl around; kicking up dust along its path.

Word: Whirlwind
Meaning: something that involves many quickly changing events or emotions
Example: The couple’s whirlwind romance happened so quickly that by May; they were married.

Word: Whisk
Meaning: to take or move something away quickly
Example: The maiden was waiting for her knight in shining armor to whisk her off into the sunset.

Word: Whisper
Meaning: to speak very softly using one’s breath but not vocal cords
Example: Even though the teacher told us not to speak at all; my sneaky classmates and I continued to whisper.

Word: Whist
Meaning: a card game played by four people (two per team) in which each side tries to win more cards than the other
Example: While playing whist; the group of friends fought over who was going to win more cards during the game.

Word: Whistle
Meaning: to make a signal through a high pitch sound by forcing air through a small hole
Example: Use your mouth to whistle to the others so that they can know where we are.

Word: Whistleblower
Meaning: a person who informs a higher power that an organization is doing things that are illegal
Example: The whistleblower reported his employer to the state after he violated several overtime laws.

Word: White-collar crimes
Meaning: nonviolent; money motivated crimes that are committed by professionals or businesses
Example: The banker was arrested for stealing from his company and was charged with several white-collar crimes.

Word: White-collar job
Meaning: a position that requires the worker to perform professional duties in an office setting
Example: Alan has always worked outdoor gigs; but now he wants to transition to a white-collar job at the state office.

Word: White-collar worker
Meaning: an professional whose work is performed in an office or administrative setting
Example: The white-collar worker has made his career as an office manager and never worked any blue-collar factory jobs.

Word: Whitelist
Meaning: a list of items that are granted access to a certain system or protocol
Example: A whitelist on the programming allows only certain text messages to come to the phone.

Word: Whither
Meaning: to which place or position
Example: Whither one sibling goes; his needy baby brother will soon follow.

Word: Whittle
Meaning: to reduce or gradually eliminate something
Example: Her patience began to whittle when the students would not stop talking.

Word: Whiz
Meaning: a person that is naturally good or clever at something
Example: Even at the age of five; you can tell that the boy is a computer whiz.

Word: Whoever
Meaning: whichever person or people
Example: Whoever wants to come over to the birthday party is invited to attend as a guest.

Word: Whole
Meaning: the entire thing
Example: Walter was so hungry that he was able to devour a whole box of pizza without leaving one slice.

Word: Wholeheartedly
Meaning: fully; without reserve
Example: Although Hazel is halfhearted about our relationship; I am in it wholeheartedly; without any reservations.

Word: Wholesome
Meaning: considered ethical or of good moral standing
Example: Though he put on a wholesome persona; the mayor was really a gambler who stole money from the city.

Word: Wholly
Meaning: totally or completely
Example: According to the police; the intoxicated man was wholly at fault for the car accident.

Word: Whom
Meaning: "used instead of ""who"" as the object of a verb or preposition"
Example: The couple has three children; two of whom were adopted.

Word: Whoop-de-do
Meaning: a commotion or frenzy of activity or excitement
Example: The Christmas whoop-de-do is exciting for the children who love the holiday frenzy.

Word: Whoop-de-doo
Meaning: used sarcastically; indicating a lack of enthusiasm
Example: Well; whoop-de-doo; they're offering me a 0.1 percent pay raise!

Word: Whose
Meaning: belonging to or associated with which person
Example: Whose car is parked in the driveway; Tammy or Jackson?

Word: Wicked
Meaning: evil
Example: Whenever the young children would see the wicked witch in the movie; they would scream in fright because they thought she would harm them.

Word: Wicked
Meaning: morally wrong or evil
Example: The evil queen’s wicked ways gave her the reputation of a cruel ruler.

Word: Wickedness
Meaning: evilness that is morally wrong or harmful
Example: A sense of wickedness filled the witch’s castle; and her evilness could be felt throughout each room.

Word: Widen
Meaning: to become wide or wider
Example: Online marketing campaigns widen the chances for more people to see the brand.

Word: Widespread
Meaning: affecting a large area or number of people
Example: The widespread outages that our state experienced last month were due to the big tornado.

Word: Widow
Meaning: a wife whose husband has died and has yet to remarry
Example: Mrs. Carter became a widow when her husband was killed in the line of duty in Afghanistan.

Word: Wield
Meaning: To control an item with competence; in particularly a tool or weapon
Example: Do you wish you could wield a sword like a valiant knight?

Word: Wifely
Meaning: like or relating to a wife
Example: Rita always made sure to complete her wifely duties such as keeping the house clean and cooking for her husband.

Word: Wild
Meaning: untamed; living in a natural state
Example: A pack of wild dogs roamed the neighborhood picking fights with tamed pets.

Word: Wildcard
Meaning: someone or something that causes uncertainty because there is no way to determine their behavior or influence beforehand
Example: Considered a wildcard before the show; Juan surprised everyone with his outstanding school play performance.

Word: Wilderness
Meaning: An uncivilized expanse; often without human settlement of any kind
Example: At one time; much of America was an unexplored wilderness that was home to more animals than man.

Word: Wildlife
Meaning: animals and plants thriving in a natural environment
Example: The deer hunter creeped through the forest; carefully searching for wildlife to trap.

Word: Will
Meaning: a document that outlines who will get one’s personal property and control their estate after death
Example: Before his death; the millionaire drafted a will that outlined who would get his massive fortune.

Word: Willful
Meaning: declining to alter one’s behavior or opinions
Example: The willful boy refused to take his seat in class.

Word: Willingly
Meaning: of one's own free will
Example: The suspect did not go willingly and fought every second of his arrest.

Word: Willingness
Meaning: happily prepared and wanting to do something
Example: The young woman’s willingness to give an impromptu speech since their speaker didn’t show was very much appreciated by those who planned the event.

Word: Williwaw
Meaning: a suddenly violent; gust of cold wind blowing down from mountain coast towards the sea
Example: A strong williwaw blew in from the coast and shipwrecked a vessel trying to make its way around the Cape Horn.

Word: Wilt
Meaning: to droop or become limp and soft
Example: I placed an excessive amount of water into the vase on my breakfront because of how quickly the flowers tend to wilt.

Word: Wily
Meaning: sneaky and calculating
Example: The wily cartoon character was always thinking of ways to steal food.

Word: Wimpy
Meaning: weak and cowardly
Example: Wimpy and weak; the frail boy was too afraid to stand up to the playground bully.

Word: Wince
Meaning: to make a tensing movement as a result of distress or pain
Example: The electric shock made the dog wince.

Word: Wincing
Meaning: flinching or grimacing involuntarily as a result of pain or anguish
Example: As soon as the abused dog sees a belt; he begins wincing out of fear.

Word: Wind up
Meaning: to prepare for; typically in regards to a heavy blow or a lot of action
Example: The boxer threw a punch so powerful that he had to wind up for it before even launching it at his foe.

Word: Wind
Meaning: to turn something around and around in a coiling or twisting motion
Example: If you wind up the metal piece of the jewelry box; the little ballerina will spin around and around.

Word: Windfall
Meaning: an unanticipated benefit; usually monetary in nature
Example: With her lottery windfall; Gail eliminated all her financial debt.

Word: Winding
Meaning: a twisting or curving path with many turns
Example: We took a winding trail throughout the woods that got us where we wanted to be; but not without a lot of twists and turns.

Word: Winger
Meaning: an attacking player that is on the wing in certain sports
Example: The championship soccer winger stayed on the outside and attacked any incoming players.

Word: Winner
Meaning: the victor or champion that wins something
Example: The winner of the championship game was a new victor who had never played the sport before

Word: Winnow
Meaning: 
Example: The warm summer breeze slowly winnowed the sand across their beach towel.

Word: Winsome
Meaning: appealing in an innocent manner
Example: Greg’s winsome smile is incredibly boyish.

Word: Winter
Meaning: the coldest season of the year
Example: During the winter months; the children wear thick coats and gloves to keep their hands warm.

Word: Wiry
Meaning: strong and muscular yet thin and long
Example: The wiry basketball player moved his slim frame down the court and scored a goal as the buzzer sounded.

Word: Wisdom
Meaning: the capability to use knowledge and experience to make educated and insightful decisions
Example: Jane’s history of making bad choices shows her lack of wisdom.

Word: Wise
Meaning: intelligent; sensible
Example: Although the young woman was an A student; she wasn’t very wise when it came to dating decisions.

Word: Wisely
Meaning: in an intelligent or clever way
Example: Choosing his meal wisely; the dieter vowed to make smarter food choices from here on out.

Word: Wishful thinking
Meaning: thoughts of an unlikely future event that you wish were possible but isn’t likely
Example: Nan knew that winning the lottery was wishful thinking; but she still liked to dream it could come true.

Word: Wishy-washy
Meaning: uncertain and indecisive
Example: The wishy-washy woman couldn’t decide on an outfit and went back and forth between choices for several hours.

Word: Wisp
Meaning: a small and thin amount of something; generally capable of being carried by the wind
Example: With the fuel for the fire all but burnt away; there was nothing left but a wisp of smoke and scraps of ash floating on the breeze.

Word: Wispy
Meaning: describes objects that are thin and fine
Example: The soft-spoken woman’s wispy voice could barely be heard in the crowd.

Word: Wistful
Meaning: sad and reflective
Example: When I visit my mother’s grave; I feel wistful.

Word: Wistfully
Meaning: in a manner that suggests regret or longing
Example: As I think back to my childhood; I wistfully recall the fun summers on my grandfather’s farm.

Word: Wit 
Meaning: the skill of using words in a manner that is both amusing and clever
Example: While the doctor laughed at his humorous comment; I did not find his wit amusing.

Word: Witch
Meaning: a woman who claims to have magical powers and practices sorcery or witchcraft
Example: The warty witch mixed up toad parts and magic beans in her black cauldron.

Word: Withal 
Meaning: along with this; in addition to something else
Example: Jared is a successful actor and withal a philanthropist who generously donates to charity.

Word: Withdraw
Meaning: to remove or take away something from a specific place
Example: Because he no longer wants the job; the applicant decided to withdraw his application from the running.

Word: Withdrawal
Meaning: the removal or cancellation of something
Example: Withdrawal of the soldiers happened after the commander gave the order to pull out all troops.

Word: Withdrawn
Meaning: being detached from others and seeking solitude retreating from social interactions
Example: After her father passed away; Molly was withdrawn and antisocial.

Word: Wither
Meaning: dry up or shrivel
Example: The gardener’s plants began to wither in the heat of the sun.

Word: Withhold
Meaning: to keep something from someone
Example: If you withhold information from the judge; you could get thrown in jail for not telling all of the truth.

Word: Within
Meaning: inside of
Example: When the target is within striking distance; we will pull the trigger.

Word: Withstand
Meaning: to persist through or survive a difficult situation
Example: The houses close to the coast were built so sturdily that they are able to withstand the strongest storms.

Word: Withstood
Meaning: having resisted or stood firm against some force
Example: The trees withstood the hurricane even though the winds were very strong.

Word: Witness
Meaning: to see something
Example: I bore witness to the sunrise this morning; because I decided it would be nice to start the day on a good note this time.

Word: Witticism
Meaning: a clever and amusing remark
Example: Wanting to impress her new friends; the girl showcased her witticism in order to make them laugh.

Word: Witty
Meaning: using words in a clever and humorous way
Example: Robert’s attempt at a witty comeback fell flat; without evoking any kind of laughter.

Word: Witty
Meaning: funny and clever
Example: Known for his witty comebacks; the comedian’s amusing stand-up routine is a hit with every audience.

Word: Wizened
Meaning: wrinkly from sickness or old age
Example: While the flowers arrived looking fresh and beautiful; they have grown wizened over the past few days.

Word: Wobble
Meaning: to move unsteadily from side to side
Example: While learning to walk; the toddler would wobble from side to side.

Word: Woe 
Meaning: grief or sorrow
Example: My daughter experienced such woe when her boyfriend dumped her.

Word: Woebegone
Meaning: sad; tearful; or miserable in appearance
Example: Because he was not allowed to go with his father; the little boy was terribly woebegone.

Word: Woeful
Meaning: pitiful; pathetic
Example: The cook’s woeful attempt at spaghetti tasted like cardboard.

Word: Woke
Meaning: rose from one’s sleep
Example: After sleeping for several hours; the well-rested wife finally woke from her sleep.

Word: Women
Meaning: adult female beings
Example: In the early to mid-1900s; women rarely worked outside of the home and mainly took care of the children.

Word: Wonder
Meaning: to question or ponder something
Example: I wonder what my friend Betty is doing today since she said she would be bust running errands with her mother?

Word: Wonderful
Meaning: something that is amazing or marvelous in an exciting way
Example: The soon-to-be father was so excited to learn the wonderful news surrounding his wife’s pregnancy.

Word: Wondrous
Meaning: amazing; inspiring awe
Example: Earning a trip to state; my choir was reported to have the most wondrous performance.

Word: Woo
Meaning: to gain the love or affection of someone
Example: During the courtship; the lovestruck gentleman worked really hard to woo the young lady.

Word: Wooden
Meaning: made of wood from a tree
Example: The carpenter built a wooden cabin from oak trees that he chopped down in the forest.

Word: Wordy
Meaning: using more words than necessary to express one’s thoughts or feelings
Example: The student corrected her wordy essay; taking away some of the unnecessary words in the last paragraph.

Word: Work ethic
Meaning: a belief in the moral benefit and importance of work
Example: Because of his strong work ethic; the man was known as a hard worker throughout.

Word: Work ethic
Meaning: a moral belief in the importance of hard work
Example: Because she has such a strong work ethic; Heather goes to work consistently and never turns down extra shifts.

Word: Work out
Meaning: to do exercises to make your body stronger
Example: The bodybuilder makes sure to work out every day so that he can keep his humongous muscles bulging.

Word: Work
Meaning: to complete tasks; especially at one’s job or to earn money
Example: Because she likes to work from home; Janet prepares a lot of her cases on her personal computer.

Word: Workaholic
Meaning: someone who works to excess or the extreme
Example: A workaholic like his father; John worked in the fields from sun up to sun down.

Word: Workaround
Meaning: a way of dealing with a problem or person without actually solving the entire situation
Example: The instructor looked for a way to workaround the lack of internet so he could teach the online lesson he had planned.

Word: Workaround
Meaning: a method for overcoming a problem or situation
Example: The fast-food worker found a workaround that made it easier for her to get the difficult orders out on time.

Word: Workflow
Meaning: the flow or amount of work to and from an office or employee
Example: During the winter time; workflow seems to slow down; but the stream of tasks picks up in the summer.

Word: Workforce
Meaning: the group of people that work for a particular company or place
Example: Members of the workforce joined a union as a way to protect their rights and negotiate their contracts.

Word: Workload
Meaning: the amount of work that needs to be completed
Example: As the students’ workload increases; they will lose more of their free time.

Word: Workmanship
Meaning: the skill of making things
Example: Made in the U.S.A. used to mean the item you were buying was of the highest workmanship.

Word: World
Meaning: the earth; especially when referring to the place that people live
Example: Because many people refuse to recycle; they are hurting our world and the natural resources on the earth.

Word: Worldwide
Meaning: global; all over the world
Example: The company hopes to go worldwide and branch out over both Asia and Europe.

Word: Worried
Meaning: anxious and upset about something
Example: Allen is worried about not having enough money to pay his bills this month.

Word: Worrisome
Meaning: something that causes stress or fear
Example: The rising crime rate in her neighborhood was more than worrisome; it was alarming.

Word: Worry
Meaning: give way to anxiety or unease; allow one's mind to dwell on difficulty or troubles
Example: She tried not to worry about her test grade; but because it made up 60% of her grade she couldn’t help panicking.

Word: Worse
Meaning: a comparative term meaning more difficult or unpleasant than before
Example: Soda is much worse for your health than water or healthy juices.

Word: Worsen
Meaning: to make the condition of something worse
Example: The sick woman’s condition will worsen if she doesn’t get the medicine she needs.

Word: Worship
Meaning: to show respect and honor something and hold it as sacred
Example: The Clines goes to church every Sunday to worship with family and friends.

Word: Worship
Meaning: to express honor and respect for someone or something; especially a deity
Example: In that country; many people worship carved objects in the way that others show respect to a god.

Word: Worst
Meaning: the most bad or ill of a group of people or things
Example: The student said that the worst part of her already difficult school day was having to walk several miles to the bus stop.

Word: Worth
Meaning: having a particular value
Example: The jewelry isn’t worth much money; but it is a beautiful color.

Word: Worthiness
Meaning: having qualities that are desired to fit into a specific group or category
Example: The Royal family interviews all potential matches for worthiness before the prince is allowed to date.

Word: Worthless
Meaning: having no value or use
Example: The broken speaker was useless; so I threw it in the trash when cleaning out the garage.

Word: Worthwhile
Meaning: good and important enough to spend time; effort; or money on
Example: I get a feeling of satisfaction when I invest my energy in worthwhile causes that bring benefit to the world.

Word: Worthy
Meaning: deserving respect; praise; or attention
Example: All the talented artists were worthy of the prize; but only one received the award.

Word: Wound
Meaning: a cut; gash; or some other type of open injury
Example: During a cat fight; Garfield received a deep wound to his hind leg.

Word: Wow
Meaning: to impress or excite someone
Example: The acrobat was able to wow the stunned audience with her amazing flips and turns.

Word: Wraith
Meaning: ghost of a known person who recently died
Example: After Uncle Benny passed away in the car accident; I awoke frightened to see his wraith floating in the doorway.

Word: Wrangle
Meaning: to bicker or dispute
Example: I had to wrangle with my parents for permission to take their car out for a drive.

Word: Wrapper
Meaning: a piece of plastic or foil that covers a product
Example: As soon as she was handed the candy; the toddler ripped off the sucker wrapper.

Word: Wrath
Meaning: intense anger
Example: In mythology mortals generally feared the wrath of the powerful gods.

Word: Wrathful
Meaning: very angry and irate
Example: Irate and wrathful; the vengeful wife was looking for a way to punish her cheating husband.

Word: Wreak havoc
Meaning: to bring chaos and distraction
Example: The devastating storm was able to wreak havoc on the entire island; destroying life there in just a matter of seconds.

Word: Wreak
Meaning: cause a lot of damage or harm
Example: If the internet goes down; it will wreak havoc with our ability to communicate and continue doing any kind of business.

Word: Wreck
Meaning: to destroy or damage something
Example: My cousins tried to wreck my party by showing up and making an ugly scene.

Word: Wreckage
Meaning: debris and rubble left over after a disaster
Example: Weeks after the tornado swept through the town; homeowners were still trying to clean up the wreckage and rebuild.

Word: Wren
Meaning: a small brown bird
Example: The Wren is a small brown bird commonly found in the New World with a high pitched and endearing chirp.

Word: Wrench
Meaning: to pull or twist something away violently
Example: Tiff tried to wrench all of the water out of the rag by twisting it really tightly.

Word: Wrenching
Meaning: forcefully pulling away from something or someone
Example: 1. The football player tried wrenching the ball from the other team member’s hands; but his grip was too strong.

Word: Wrest
Meaning: to forcefully take something away
Example: My wife had to wrest the candy bar from my hands in order for me to stop eating it.

Word: Wrestle
Meaning: to struggle with a difficultly or problem
Example: The unhappy worker continues to wrestle with the decision to find a better job.

Word: Wretched
Meaning: incredibly miserable
Example: After a night of overindulging in rich foods and alcoholic drinks; I am wretched.

Word: Wriggle
Meaning: to move or twist in contorted motion
Example: The rabbit was able to wriggle its way out of the net and moved its body well enough to escape the trap.

Word: Wright
Meaning: one who builds or erects
Example: After the architect finished drawing his plans; it was time for the wright to follow through with the project.

Word: Wring
Meaning: to squeeze or twist in an effort to remove liquid from something
Example: After I stepped in the puddle; I had to wring water from my socks.

Word: Wrinkle
Meaning: a slight line or fold; especially in skin or fabric
Example: The maid used the steaming hot iron to smooth each wrinkle on her boss’s shirt.

Word: Wrinkled
Meaning: to make or cause folds or lines in something
Example: Because she balled the clothes up into a pile; the maid wrinkled the hotel guest’s once ironed shirts.

Word: Writ
Meaning: the power to enforce submission and compliance
Example: It is beyond the writ of adults to punish children that are not their own for misbehavior regardless of how bad it is.

Word: Write
Meaning: to mark words or symbols down; especially on paper
Example: Students were asked to write their full names on the piece of paper.

Word: Writer
Meaning: one who has authored or written something
Example: Kristen hired a talented writer to help her put her life story in book form.

Word: Writhe
Meaning: to twist as if from struggling or pain
Example: When the old man had a heart attack; he fell to the floor and began to writhe around on the carpet while holding his chest.

Word: Written
Meaning: having made marks that represent letters; shapes; or numbers; usually on paper with pen
Example: Written in ink; the words on the pages began to smear when they got wet.

Word: Wrong
Meaning: not correct or accurate
Example: The math student came up with the wrong answer; but his teacher helped him find the right solution.

Word: Wrongdoer
Meaning: a person who does something wrong or against the law
Example: The wrongdoer faced the judge and begged for a lesser sentence for his crimes.

Word: Wrongdoing
Meaning: an action that is morally or legally wrong
Example: If you are guilty of wrongdoing in our society; you must pay either through fines or jail time; depending on the severity of your crime.

Word: Wronged
Meaning: betrayed; hurt
Example: Though she felt wronged by her former employer; the woman felt it best to forgive and move forward.

Word: Wrought 
Meaning: prepared in some manner; usually by hammering or applying another type of pressure
Example: As we stared at the wrought iron gate; we could not help but wonder about the craftsman who had created the masterpiece.

Word: Wry
Meaning: describes something sarcastic or a bit humorous
Example: Bill's wry sense of humor made it difficult to be taken seriously at the office.

Word: Wryly
Meaning: in a witty yet mocking manner
Example: As a self-proclaimed chef; Kelly wryly writes about her experiences in the kitchen.

Word: Wunderkind
Meaning: a young prodigy or whiz kid who becomes victorious with his or her accomplishments
Example: When Mozart began composing popular classical music before the age of six; this wunderkind astonished everyone with his early achievements.

Word: Xanthosis
Meaning: an abnormal yellowish discoloration of the skin
Example: The doctor explained that cholesterol build-up in the skin cells could cause a yellowing of the skin known as xanthosis.

Word: Xenophile
Meaning: a xenophile is a person attracted to foreign people and customs
Example: The American professor is a xenophile particularly interested in Roman cathedrals.

Word: Xenophobia
Meaning: a dread or dislike of anything or anyone foreign; especially people from other cultures and races
Example: Shane’s xenophobia prevents him from going to social events where there are people he does not know.

Word: Xeric
Meaning: an area or climate that gets a very low volume of water and is often extremely dry
Example: The xeric environment of the desert makes it difficult for plants that require a substantial amount of water to grow.

Word: Xerox
Meaning: a photocopy or reproduction of something
Example: The xerox machine in the office is broken and can’t be used to make photocopies.

Word: Xylem
Meaning: plant tissue that carries water and minerals from the roots to the leaves
Example: Xylem carried water from the root of the plant to the very center of the leaf.

Word: Xylophone
Meaning: a musical instrument played by striking a row of wooden bars with a mallet
Example: The music teacher showed her students how to play a song by tapping each wooden bar on the xylophone.

Word: Yacht
Meaning: a sail-boat used for racing or pleasure rides
Example: The family boarded the yacht and prepared to set sail to a private island where they would spend the day.

Word: Yahoo
Meaning: a rude; coarse and wild person
Example: One day in her classroom; Ms. Howard determined that the yahoo in class needed to be punished for talking back to her in a rowdy way.

Word: Yammer
Meaning: to excessively complain about something
Example: Her grandfather liked to yammer on and on about how things were better back in the old days.

Word: Yammered
Meaning: made a loud; repetitive noise
Example: The mouthy woman yammered on and on; telling everyone she met about her relationship problems.

Word: Yank
Meaning: to pull something quickly
Example: 1. The robber tried to yank the man’s briefcase from his hand; but didn’t pull hard enough.

Word: Yard
Meaning: a grassy piece of land surrounding a house
Example: Because the grass in his yard has grown so tall; Ed will spend most of the day mowing it.

Word: Yarn
Meaning: to tell a long and unlikely story
Example: The old man loved to yarn on and on about the old days; where he was supposedly some sort of hero of great fame and renown.

Word: Yearly
Meaning: happening every year
Example: The family is planning their yearly reunion where they meet up each August and have a cookout.

Word: Yearn
Meaning: to have a deep desire for something or someone
Example: When my sister was pregnant; all she did was yearn for chocolate ice cream and French fries.

Word: Yeast
Meaning: a single-celled; microscopic fungi used in many food items; nutrition; and even bio-fuels
Example: It’s hard to believe that yeast; a common fungus; is used to make something as delicious as pizza dough.

Word: Yegg
Meaning: a thief who is skilled in breaking open safes
Example: Using his safe-cracking skills; the yegg was able to steal all of the money out of the man’s hiding spot.

Word: Yellow Journalism
Meaning: fake news that is not based on fact but exaggerations
Example: The paper published a piece of yellow journalism that was nothing but exaggerated facts.

Word: Yellow Journalism
Meaning: journalism that exaggerates distorts or exploits the news to attract readers
Example: In the 1800s; Spain and the US were pushed into war because of yellow journalism that exaggerated the facts.

Word: Yen
Meaning: the basic unit of money used in Japan
Example: The yen is the currency of Japan and is the most valued money unit after the dollar and the euro.

Word: Yeoman
Meaning: a farmer long-ago who owned a small amount of land
Example: The yeoman was plowing the field on his master’s land.

Word: Yes
Meaning: given as a positive or agreeing answer when asked a question
Example: Yes; I can sell you two new pairs of shoes for the rice of one.

Word: Yesteryear
Meaning: a point in the past; usually thought of in a nostalgic way
Example: Grandma frequently talked about the beauty of yesteryear when gas was less than a dollar and she could buy a handful of candy for a quarter.

Word: Yesteryear
Meaning: last year; or in past years
Example: A famous singer of yesteryear; the old-timer reminisced about all the stages he had performed on during his prime.

Word: Yet
Meaning: so far; up until now
Example: The company hasn’t hired anyone yet; but they should be making their selections this week.

Word: Yield
Meaning: to bow out
Example: Since I do not know a great deal about the subject; I will yield this question to my well-informed colleague.

Word: Yielding
Meaning: productive; providing a profit
Example: The farmland has been yielding more and more crops; allowing the farmers to gain even more money.

Word: Yoga
Meaning: an ancient art based on a harmonizing system of development for the body; mind; and spirit through breathing exercises and exercise
Example: Yoga is a combination of three things: various postures; breathing patterns and mindful meditation.

Word: Yoke
Meaning: an attachment for two animals side by side with a bar across the top of their necks and each loop around their heads
Example: Pioneers put their oxen’s heads through the rings of the yoke with the attached straps stretched up to the wagon.

Word: Yonder
Meaning: in a distant; indicated place; over there
Example: The creek is about a mile or so yonder.

Word: Yore
Meaning: a very long time ago
Example: In the days of yore; the Internet did not exist.

Word: Yourself
Meaning: a word used by a speaker or writer to refer to the person being addressed as the object of the verb
Example: The speaker that it is important to do most of the work yourself instead of hiring someone else.

Word: Youth
Meaning: young people (usually considered a group)
Example: Several teenagers started a church youth group where they can pray and study.

Word: Youthful
Meaning: young-looking; child-like
Example: Because of her youthful appearance and energetic spirit; it was hard for anyone to believe that Tina was sixty years old.

Word: Yowza
Meaning: a word used to express excitement or surprise
Example: “Yowza;” Bella exclaimed when she saw the table full of delicious cakes and pies.

Word: Yule
Meaning: an old term for the Christmas holiday
Example: The Yule holiday is when we set up trees in our homes and decorate them with ornaments and lights.

Word: Yuletide
Meaning: an old term for the Christmas season
Example: Yuletide is a time in which we celebrate Christmas; but for a lot of people that season is mostly just about presents and snow.

Word: Yuppify
Meaning: to change the way something looks in an effort to attract wealthy people
Example: The novelist made sure to yuppify his story so that well-to-do readers would be interested in reading his book.

Word: Zaftig
Meaning: having a full rounded figure
Example: Marilyn Monroe’s zaftig figure made her one of the most famous curvy actresses.

Word: Zany
Meaning: unique and amusing
Example: The comedian’s zany performances are hilarious and never fail to engage the audience.

Word: Zap
Meaning: to destroy or get rid of something quickly with force
Example: Using the electric bug killer; the homeowner was able to zap many of the pesky bugs in his backyard.

Word: Zeal
Meaning: a lot of energy; effort; and enthusiasm
Example: Jack’s zeal made him stand above all the other candidates during the interview process.

Word: Zeal
Meaning: eagerness and ardent interest in pursuit of something
Example: The athlete’s zeal gave him the energy to reach the top of the mountain.

Word: Zealot
Meaning: one who is uncompromising and fanatical in pursuit of his ideals
Example: The religious zealot was willing to break the law to follow his prophet’s orders.

Word: Zealous
Meaning: feeling or showing strong and energetic support for a person; cause; etc.
Example: Because my husband is a zealous supporter of the high school football team; he donates money to their organization every year.

Word: Zealousness
Meaning: enthusiastically full of eagerness and excitement
Example: The manager’s zealousness when it comes to work helped him quickly earn a reputation as one of the company’s most eager workers.

Word: Zeitgeist
Meaning: the spirit or identity of a specific time period
Example: The zeitgeist of the years preceding the war was a desire for isolation since no one wanted to get involved in an international crisis.

Word: Zen
Meaning: feeling extremely relaxed; peaceful; and free of worries
Example: She turned towards Zen to help her relieve the stress in her life.

Word: Zenith
Meaning: the strongest or most successful period of time
Example: Before her zenith ended; Meredith published six best-selling books.

Word: Zephyr
Meaning: a light or delicate wind
Example: By evening; the harsh wind following the storm had turned into a zephyr that did nothing more than move the leaves.

Word: Zeppelin
Meaning: a long; rigid; German airship that was used during World War I bombings and to transport passengers after the war
Example: As the German airship approached the target; the Zeppelin prepared to use its missile to bomb the area.

Word: Zero
Meaning: the figure that is written as 0 and represents none
Example: 1. The bank claimed that zero dollars were in the man’s account; but he thought he had some money.

Word: Zest
Meaning: a great amount of enthusiasm
Example: Kate's zest for running keeps her very active.

Word: Zestful
Meaning: full of energy and excitement
Example: The runners like to enter zestful competitions that will push their energy and make them work for the prize.

Word: Ziggurat
Meaning: a tower that is tiered and rectangular in shape and occasionally topped by a holy place
Example: The shape of the ziggurat is very similar to the shape of a pyramid.

Word: Zigzag
Meaning: a line of a “z” pattern in which it crisscrosses back and forth
Example: In order to escape the police; the fleeing car would zigzag in between cars going back and forth down the two lanes.

Word: Zilch
Meaning: zero or nothing
Example: She knew zilch about camping; so when she was asked to help put up the tent she fumbled with poles.

Word: Zinger
Meaning: a surprising or shocking piece of news
Example: The writer included a zinger to surprise the reader at the end of the novel.

Word: Zodiac
Meaning: a divided band in sky along which the sun; the moon; and most of the planets move that is connected to astrology and twelve signs
Example: Twelve cities in the state were named after astrological parts of the zodiac.

Word: Zone
Meaning: an area or division
Example: The zone only has houses and no stores or shops can be built there.

Word: Zoology
Meaning: that portion of science that deals with the analysis of animals and their behaviors
Example: Since Chamberlain had a fierce love for animals; choosing zoology as a college major was a natural choice for him.

Word: Zoom
Meaning: to move very quickly
Example: The cars began to zoom around the racetrack; moving faster and faster with each lap.

Word: Zygote
Meaning: the fertilized egg that results from the union of sex cells
Example: A zygote is formed when a sperm cell and an egg cell merge.

